[84963f7c-5]

Machine Learning Engineer

San Jose, CA
Infotainment / Internet of Vehicle (IOV)
Full-time
Apply for this job


The Company:
Faraday Future (FF) is a California-based mobility company, leveraging the
latest technologies and world?s best talent to realize exciting new
possibilities in mobility. We?re producing user-centric, technology-first
vehicles to establish new paradigms in human-vehicle interaction. We?re not
just seeking to change how our cars work ? we?re seeking to change the way we
drive. At FF, we?re creating something new, something connected, and something
with a true global impact.
 
Position: Machine Learning Engineer
 
Your Role:
?      Build core data capabilities and services for cloud platform
?      Design, develop, and implement data solutions
?      Designing a flexible recommender system
?      Be an active hands-on team member, collaborating with other developers
and architects in developing client solutions
 
Basic Qualifications:
?      Expert knowledge of Java and JVM, C and Linux system
?      Solid understanding of data science and machine learning algorithms and
their appropriate use.
?      Solid understanding of the various aspects of the Data Science / Machine
Learning / Big Data / Artificial Intelligence ecosystem
?      Experience with Spark
?      An advanced degree in computer science, computer engineering,
statistics, economics, mathematics, operations research or related field
 
Perks + Benefits
?      Stock options for every employee (we are all shareholders)
?      Healthcare, dental, and vision benefits (free for you and discounted for
your family)
?      401k options (save for your future)
?      Engineering orientation and onboarding program (learn, work, and grow)
?      Free daily catered lunches and food trucks onsite (eat well on our dime)
?      Healthy snacks and beverages 24/7 (satisfy your afternoon hunger pangs)
?      15 days of annual paid time off, 10 days of paid holidays
?      Relocation assistance/reimbursement (we?ll help you start your new life)
?      Free parking & carpool reimbursement (save the environment and your
wallet)
?      Casual dress code & relaxed work environment (your work will speak for
itself)
?      Frequent social events, happy hours, and team parties (meet your new
best friends)
?      ?Soul of Faraday? community outreach team (global change starts locally)

Apply for this job

Faraday Future Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
