Jump to navigation

VentureFizz Logo

  • Login / Register

[                              ]
[Search]
  • BizzPages
  • Job Board
  • Stories
  • Deals
  • Calendar

[utilidata_cover_photo_6]

Job Post

Tuesday, January 10th, 2017
Data Scientist
Utilidata
245 Chapman St., Ste 200
Providence, RI 02905
Javascript is required to view this map.

DATA Scientist

About Utilidata:

Utilidata is a global software company that utilizes patented technologies to
leverage real-time information about the electric distribution grid.  We make
the grid smarter by reducing waste, increasing reliability, and saving
money-working with utilities to scale solar, wind, and other power resources to
get out ahead of today’s transforming energy market.  We do this by connecting,
automating, and managing control throughout the utility’s distribution system. 
Given how we interact with the grid, Utilidata is in a unique position to
address today’s quickly evolving cyber security challenges.

Position Role:

The successful candidate will be proficient in the modeling, estimation and
identification of stochastic systems, and will be skilled in the art of
stochastic time series analysis.  The practice of methods drawn from these
disciplines would preferably have been focused on physical processes, likely in
the context of design of control systems which operate in an uncertain
measurement environment.  Qualified candidates may be found in any organization
that designs control systems of complex processes.  Alternatively, candidates
experienced in the analysis and predication of financial time series likely
possess many of the requisite skills.  Some categorical examples of the subject
methods are recited below.

The ideal candidate is a smart mathematically inclined engineer or scientist
who will interface with the Chief Scientist, Product Development, Product
Management, Sales and key constituents within the organization as well as with
customer organizations to help develop new algorithms and solutions which can
be deployed within Utilidata systems deployed at the customer distribution
grid.

Position Requirements:

  • 7+ years of experience
  • Advanced expertise in Matlab
  • Modern Control Theory – Knowledge of state space representation and its
    application in modelling system behavior and feedback
  • State Space Representation – Proficient applying a time-domain approach to
    modelling and analyzing systems with a multitude of inputs and outputs
  • System Identification – Experience with System Identification as a
    discipline in the broader field of control theory, primarily concerned with
    the formulation and estimation of mathematical representations of processes
    based on behavioral records, in turn almost always uniformly sampled time
    series
  • (Stochastic) Subspace Identification – Proficient analyzing data signatures
    and extracting dynamic properties of the system from the collected
    monitoring data
  • Blind Identification – Experience with signal processing in order to
    understand behavior of multi-dimensional systems from outputs
  • Source Separation – Experience with digital signal processing, recovering,
    original component signals from a combined signal

Additional Skills:

  • Deep knowledge of applied mathematics and statistical analysis, especially
    as it relates to the electric power grid
  •  Must possess experience in data management, and the analysis of complex
    datasets
  • Ability to develop models and algorithms, and generate results in a timely
    manner
  • Ability to quickly get up to speed with a range of projects to meet the
    needs of the business
  • Ability to summarize and synthesize inferences
  • Ability to work with teams comprising of engineers, software developers,
    technical sales and marketing to drive the measurement process and satisfy
    customer requirements
  • Data analysis skills using various packages such as SAS, R, and Excel.
  • Excellent presentation, written and verbal communication skills.

Education:

Minimum of a BSEE with related experience.  Master’s Degree in Applied
Mathematics, Electrical Engineering or similar field with relevant coursework
in applied statistics or information theory preferred.

 

NOTE: This job description is not intended to be all-inclusive.  Employee may
perform other related duties to meet the ongoing needs of the organization.

 
Category: Other

See What It's Like To Work Here

[util]

At Utilidata, we develop innovative solutions that help utilities address a
range of challenges. Our experience and thought leadership in this space is
unmatched. We are making the grid smarter to reduce waste, increase
reliability, and save money—working with utilities to scale solar, wind and
other power resources to get out ahead of today’s transforming energy market.

 

Visit Our BIZZpage

More Jobs From This Company

Java Developer
January 10, 2017
Software Quality Assurance Engineer
January 2, 2017
VP Cyber Product Management
January 10, 2017
Software Development Engineer
January 10, 2017
Data Analyst
January 3, 2017

[postajob]

60 day posting for only $99

Similar Jobs

Materials Research Scientist
January 10, 2017
Head of Finance and Operations
January 10, 2017
Hardware Lead
January 10, 2017
Data Analyst
January 10, 2017
Analyst, Strategy & Insight EMEA
January 10, 2017

[bizzpagesp]

VentureFizz Newsletters

Stay plugged in! Signup for our daily & weekly emails!
Email Address * [                         ]
Newsletters
[ ] VentureFizz Weekly Tech Buzz
[ ] Job Alerts
[ ] VentureFizz Daily
[Subscribe]
Copyright © 2015 VentureFizz. All rights reserved.

  • About
  • Member Login
  • Contact
  • Terms of Service
  • Privacy Policy

