Skip Navigation
ADP

  * Careers Home
  * About ADP
  * Why ADP

It takes smart technology to revolutionize business

Innovate with us.

Search Our Jobs

[                    ]

Search
ActiveSupport::TimeWithZone

Big Data Model Architect

Apply Now
Job ID 131441 Date posted 01/06/2017

Job #

131441

Job Title

Big Data Model Architect

Job Category

Technology

Work Location

Roseland NJ (1 ADP Blvd. - 40014)

Employment Status

Full-Time

Job Description

Unlock Your Career Potential: Technology at ADP. Do you enjoy exploring,
identifying and inspiring the future of the workplace and the lives of millions
of people? At ADP, the world's largest B2B cloud company, our Technology team
is comprised of brilliant engineers, architects, data scientists,
infrastructure experts, and more. We were first in our industry to offer a SaaS
solution and continue to push the envelope utilizing the latest operating
platforms to deliver the highly automated, intelligent and predictive solutions
that are redefining what is possible. Named one of Forbes' "Most Innovative
Companies" and one of Computerworld's "100 Best Places to Work in IT", we are
committed to leading the way in product development and research, empowering
you to bring to life the latest innovations that will forever change the way
businesses manage their most vital asset, employees.

POSITION SUMMARY

We strive for every interaction to be driven by our CORE values: Insightful
Expertise, Integrity is Everything, Service Excellence, Inspiring Innovation,
Each Person Counts, Results-Driven, & Social Responsibility.
 
As part of ADP's Strategic direction around Data Sciences leveraging its Data
Assets; ADP is looking for a Principal Data Architect to help design, model,
publish, govern and explain the various Data entities brought into the ADP Data
Cloud Big Data Platform. This includes all of the client data assets coming
into the ecosystem, as well as external data, as well as the data to support
any of ADP's Open Data Science initiatives.

As a Big Data Architect... the candidate will lead a team of Data analysts and
scientists to provide information and guidance to those looking to work with
the data within the Big Data Platform. The role will also work with engineering
to help provide a standard means to ingest external data in order to allow for
various groups to contribute data into the ecosystem...and then have it be
re-usable.

Responsibilities:

  * Design and maintain a Comprehensive Data Model for all data flowing into
    the cluster to target
  * Architect and develop means to connect up data across various sources
    sometimes using non-conventional means
  * Publish the living 'glossary of data objects and their meaning in order to
    provide the basis of consistent Data science work
  * Work with Data Science teams to incorporate classifications, scores, and
    predictive methods into the Data Eco-system
  * Assist development efforts by providing subject matter expertise around the
    data, to ensure successful development while also maintaining governance

Skills:

  * Hands-on familiarity with Big Data Architecture Design and implementation.
    Ultimately build out the goals of the data platform which would be the core
    behind all products built by the Data Science teams
  * Excellent communication skills required to understand the business
    questions a team is targeting to answer... and then to explain through the
    existing assets which would help them achieve those goals.
  * Leadership skills around running a technical team... one which becomes a
    central point and best practice around using and contributing data
  * Implementation of a platform to track, document, publish a data dictionary
    and glossary to a large community of users across the enterprise
  * Process oriented developer ensuring the proper validation steps are put
    into place in order to publish and reuse the data within this Data
    Ecosystem

 

ADPTECH 

 

Software in the Cloud. Experts on the Ground:
ADP powers the working world with comprehensive solutions that drive business
success. Consistently named one of the "Most Admired Companies" by FORTUNE?
Magazine, and recognized by Forbes? as one of "The World's Most Innovative
Companies," ADP has over a half-million clients around the globe and 65 years
of experience as one of the largest providers of human capital management
solutions world-wide.

At ADP, we believe that diversity fuels innovation. ADP is committed to equal
employment opportunities regardless of race, color, genetic information, creed,
religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, lawful alien status,
national origin, age, marital status, non-job related physical or mental
disability, or protected veteran status. We support an inclusive workplace
where associates excel based on personal merit, qualifications, experience,
ability, and job performance.


ADP Job ID: 131441


Apply Now

The ADP Experience

If success motivates you, you belong at ADP.

It's our associates that count. At ADP our associates enjoy a robust and
diverse organization that provides unlimited career building opportunities and
professional development programs. Working within supportive teams, our
professionals collaborate to achieve common goals and are recognized for their
individual achievements.

We want you to soar. If you give us your all, in return, we will open doors and
support you so you can take your life to new and greater heights both
professionally and personally. Our culture is one that invests heavily in the
growth and development of our human capital ? you.

Work with us and enjoy:

  * Competitive Compensation
  * Comprehensive Healthcare Benefits
  * Paid Time Off (vacation, holiday and personal days)
  * Annual Community Service Hours (Paid Time Off)
  * Corporate Discount Portal
  * 401(k) Company Contributions
  * Reimbursement Accounts
  * Survivor Benefits
  * Tuition Reimbursement
  * On-site childcare (in some locations)
  * Associate Recognition Program
  * ?and much more!

[logo_quest]

At ADP, we believe that our diversity fuels innovation and benefits our
associates, clients, and communities. All qualified applicants will receive
consideration for employment without regard to age, race, creed, color,
religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, marital status, affectional or sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, or protected veteran status and
will not be discriminated against on the basis of disability.
EEO IS THE LAW: To read more about Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) please
click on the links below:
"EEO is The Law" Self-print Poster and "EEO is the Law" Poster Supplement


ADP, LLC. (ADP?) 1 ADP Boulevard, Roseland, NJ 07068 Phone: 800-225-5237
? 2016 ADP, LLC

