*
TEKsystems?Our People Make IT Possible
Services
Industries
IT Careers
Contact
Services
Industries
IT Careers
Contact

  * 
  *  

  * Need help?
      + Contact us at teksystems@jobs.net

  * Language: United States - English
      + United States - English
      + Canada - French

  * Back to Search

Data Analysis

TEKsystems, Inc
Posted: 01/05/2017
Apply

Job Snapshot


Location:
US-TN-Brentwood
Employee Type:
Contract to Hire
Posting ID:
5871755


Job Summary



TEKsystems is hiring senior level ETL Developers for the followoing position:

The Clinical Services Group (CSG) is responsible for the development and
implementation of
the Clinical Informatics Program as well as the expansion of business processes
and performance related to the company's Clinical Data Management (CDM) and
Data Quality Management (DQM) strategies. The DQM Senior Data Analyst is a
recognized subject-matter expert who actively participates in the development
and implementation of CDM requirements as they relate to the clinical,
administrative and financial process and variations in the Clinical Informatics
Program. The DQM Senior Data Analyst will support DQM data usage analysis, ad
hoc reporting, report configuration, and report distribution throughout the
organization. This role will be responsible for creating ad hoc and standard
reports for the field on the operational and clinical aspects related to DQM.
Additionally, the DQM Senior Data Analyst will present and review data in the
form of reports, dashboards and scorecards and assist in defining and
monitoring operation requirements defined in the CDM project.
* Ensure a standardized and consistent approach relating to DQM participation
and implementation of Data Governance, Business Intelligence (BI) and
Analytics.
* Acts as the subject matter expert to assist in the development of the
appropriate strategies, plans, tools and approaches to ensure successful
implementation of DQM reports, dashboards and scorecards.
* Think analytically and critically to lead reporting standardization and
automating efforts.
* Present data formally and informally and facilitate discussion regarding data
outputs.
* Lead multi-disciplinary teams to use data in improving usage and operational
workflow.
* Provide complex data analysis, data mining, and data science with ad hoc and
operational reports as requested by Group, Division, and Corporate leaders.
* Demonstrated knowledge to understand DQM data in order to develop and design
reports.
* Identify reporting needs to support usage goals throughout the Facility,
Division, and Group levels of HCA.
* Obtain field feedback on usage activities to continuously improve DQM output.
* Use and support database applications and analytical tools, evaluate data
quality, applications, and workflow functions.
* Format, run, distribute, and interpret reports using the available tools.
* Provide in depth "what if" analysis of data using available tools.
* Escalate to and collaborate with DQM Director on program issues and risks to
identify solutions.
* Other duties assigned as necessary, to support DQM, CDM, the Clinical
Informatics Program Office and the Clinical Services Group.
Qualifications:
* Demonstrated extensive experience in large-scale reporting development
projects.
* Demonstrated extensive SQL development experience with solid understanding of
relational and multi-dimensional designs.
* MicroStrategy or Tableau experience required and course completion required
within 6 months of employment.
* Experience with relational database management systems; Teradata experience
required.
* Expert knowledge of Microsoft Office and Excel.
* Knowledgeable about working with clinical data within a healthcare system.
* Ability to communicate and facilitate topics clearly and effectively across
department lines; working inside peer groups and receiving guidance from
supervisor.
* Demonstrated oral, written and technical communication skills required.
* Knows and applies the fundamental concepts and principles gained through
experience to solve a range of straightforward problems and moderately complex
problems.
* Demonstrated presentation/public speaking skills and experience required.
Possesses good organizational skills, as well as visual and verbal presentation
skills.
* Knowledge of health industry data standards/normalization required for data
interoperability and health information exchange (i.e. LOINC, SNOMED-CT,
RxNorm, ICD-9, etc).







About TEKsystems:

Join TEKsystems?, a leading IT staffing, IT talent management and IT services
firm, and get your career on the fast track. We have more than 100 offices
worldwide, and we partner with over 6,000 clients and place over 80,000
consultants per year. At TEKsystems, we seek to understand our consultants'
skills, goals and interests, allowing us to present targeted job opportunities
on a contract, contract-to-hire or direct placement basis. TEKsystems'
leadership in the market stems from our sincere and personal commitment to
driving the success of our customers, consultants and each other.

The company is an equal opportunity employer and will consider all applications
without regard to race, sex, age, color, religion, national origin, veteran
status, disability, genetic information or any other characteristic protected
by law.

If you would like to request a reasonable accommodation, such as the
modification or adjustment of the job application process or interviewing
process due to a disability, please call 888 472-3411 or email
accommodation@teksystems.com for other accommodation options.
 

Contact Information


Name:
Tyler Muller
Email:
tmuller@teksystems.com
Phone:
6158861115

Apply

  *  
  *  
  *  
  *  
  *  
  *  
  *  

  * Contact Us
  * TEKsavvy Blog
  * About TEKsystems
  * Internal Careers

  * All Locations
  * Privacy
  * Terms and Conditions
  * Site Map

Copyright ? 2016 TEKsystems Inc., All Rights Reserved.

