Staff Positions

Applicants interested in applying for a position with the Salk Institute should
complete a Salk Staff Online Application referencing one or more job numbers
from the current openings below.

The Salk Institute does not accept unsolicited resumes. Applicants must apply
for available posted positions and follow the application procedures outlined.

The Salk Institute is an Equal Opportunity Employer.

Recommended browsers using a PC or a Mac: IE 7+, Firefox, Safari on the Mac,
Chrome.
      Successful submissions with tablets and smartphones cannot be guaranteed.
All posted positions close at 11:59 PST of the Closes On Date, unless posted as
Open Until Filled.

←Return to List
Job #: F429
Posted Date: December 5, 2016
Closes On: Open Until Filled
Job Title: Data Analyst/Data Scientist- Integrative Biology Laboratory
Status: Regular Full Time
Benefits Eligible: Yes
Laboratory/Department: Integrative Biology Laboratory
Position Description:

Seeking an experienced data scientist to help with building data-driven
biological models of human aging and human lifestyles that will be crucial for
developing future diagnostics and personalized medicines.

A healthy lifestyle is commonly thought of as what and how much one eats,
sleeps, and moves. Research has shown that the temporal aspect of these
behaviors plays a critical role in healthy aging and susceptibility to various
diseases, including cardiovascular disease, metabolic disorders, and cancer.

The goal of this position is to analyze large and continuously-growing data
sets depicting human aging and lifestyle choices to predict how these patterns
influence human health.

This position will be collaborating between multiple laboratories.

Education:

Required:

  • MS degree in computer science, computational biology, or bioinformatics.

Preferred:

  • PhD computer science, computational biology, or bioinformatics.
Experience:

Required:

  • A minimum of 3 years experience with data analysis.
  • A strong algorithmic and programming skills.
  • Extensive experience with machine learning (time-series analysis is a
    plus).
  • Extensive experience analyzing and visualizing biological datasets.

Special Requirements:

  • Able to work a flexible schedule based on research needs.
  • Successful completion of the Institute’s background investigation.
  • Must be willing to work in an animal-related research environment.

Physical Requirements:

This position requires constant seeing, adjusting focus, keying, reading,
writing, calculating, reasoning, analyzing, communicating and working inside.


