University of Wisconsin–Madison

Jobs at UW

University of Wisconsin–Madison

Job Alerts Applicant Login
Filter

DATA CURATOR & ANALYST

Apply now Job no: 89338-AS
Work type: Staff-Full Time
Department:ENGR-GREAT LAKES BIOENERGY CTR
Location: Madison
Categories: Information Systems/Technology, Research, Scientific

   Position     89338-AS
  Vacancy ID:
  Employment    Academic Staff-Renewable
    Class:
Working Title:  Data Curator & Analyst

                SR PROGRAMMER ANALYST(T06BN) or PROGRAMMER ANALYST(T06DN) or
Official Title: ASSOC PROGRAM ANALYST(T06FN)

    Hiring      A199920-COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING/ENGR-GREAT LAKES BIOENERGY CTR
  Department:
     FTE:       100%

  Anticipated   FEBRUARY 07, 2017
  Begin Date:
     Term:      This is a renewable appointment.

  Advertised    Minimum $50,000 ANNUAL (12 months)
    Salary:     Depending on Qualifications

Degree and area B.S. or higher in a STEM discipline.
      of
specialization:
                Demonstrated basic skills and 1-2 years of experience in
                scientific data handling and data processing script writing
                plus some knowledge of molecular biology; Being comfortable
                with using and learning new technologies (e.g., database
                technology, R scripting, XML editing); Although some training
                in these technologies will be provided, willingness to find
                solutions and do trouble shooting independently through
                searching the web is also needed. Demonstrated capacity to
                learn quickly, work independently, as well as work well within
Minimum number  teams; Attention to detail and the skills to communicate
 of years and   effectively with scientists, software developers, IT and
    type of     technical staff in person and in writing are extremely
 relevant work  important.
  experience:
                Required Skills:
                - Scripting programming (Perl/Python/R) experience to parse,
                manipulate and transform datasets from various file formats.
                - Working knowledge of Linux/Unix environment
                - Excellent verbal and written communication skills
                - Understanding of NGS and other "omics" technologies and
                datatypes
                - Multi-tasking and comfortable in working in a fast-paced
                environment

  License or     
 Certificate:
                The focus of this position is to help develop and maintain a
   Position     data catalog and a data warehouse of various research data
   Summary:     generated at the Great Lakes Bioenergy Research Center (GLBRC).

                Additional Helpful Skills:
                - NGS Data Analysis skills
                - Database development (relational and noSQL)
                - Software design, development and testing
  Additional    - Web-based development understanding
 Information:   - Technical writing experience
                - Familiarity with public repositories of high-throughput
                biological data, such as various databases maintained by NCBI,
                EBI etc.

                Emily Hickey
                ehickey2@wisc.edu
                608-890-2286
   Contact:     Relay Access (WTRS): 7-1-1 (out-of-state: TTY: 800.947.3529,
                STS: 800.833.7637) and above Phone number (See RELAY_SERVICE
                for further information. )

                Applications received by the deadline will receive full
Instructions to consideration. Applicants will be asked to upload a resume,
  Applicants:   cover letter, and contact information for three professional
                references.

  Additional    Full Position Details
     Link:
                NOTE: A Period of Evaluation will be Required
                The University of Wisconsin is an Equal Opportunity and
                Affirmative Action Employer.

                The Annual Security and Fire Safety Report contains current
                campus safety and disciplinary policies, crime statistics for
                the previous 3 calendar years, and on-campus student housing
                fire safety policies and fire statistics for the previous 3
                calendar years. UW-Madison will provide a paper copy upon
                request; please contact the University of Wisconsin Police
                Department.

 

Applications Open: 05 Jan 2017 Central Standard Time
Applications Close: 02 Feb 2017 Central Standard Time

Back to search results Apply now Refer a friend

Share this: | More
Send me jobs like these

We will email you new jobs that match this search.

Email address [                    ]

Ok, we will send you jobs like this.

The email address was invalid, please check for errors.

You must agree to the privacy statement

Subscribe
[Subscribe] [*]

Search results

           Position             Department   Location     Opened      Closes
                               ENGR-GREAT
DATA CURATOR & ANALYST         LAKES        Madison     5 Jan 2017  2 Feb 2017
                               BIOENERGY
                               CTR
The Great Lakes Bioenergy Research Center (GLBRC) is one of three Department of
Energy centers established to conduct fundamental, genomics-based research on
microbial and plant systems required to realize the national need for low-cost
biofuels. The GLBRC is housed at the University of Wisconsin with collaborators
at Michigan State University and other universities and national labs. As a
member of a research team of faculty, staff, post docs, and graduate students,
the Data Curator and Analyst will help organize, annotate and publish large,
complex data sets from a wide variety of research disciplines. The focus of
this position is to help develop and maintain a data catalog and a data
warehouse of various research data generated at GLBRC. The Data Curator and
Analyst will also help submit datasets to public data repositories such as NCBI
and DOE Systems Biology Knowledge Base. In addition to data, this position will
also help publish novel scientific software developed at GLBRC. In helping
manage this research/scientific data, the person hired into this position will
have heavy interfacing with end-users who are Researchers, Scientists, or
Software Developers.

Expression of interest

Loading...

Current opportunities

           Position             Department   Location     Opened      Closes
                               ENGR-GREAT
DATA CURATOR & ANALYST         LAKES        Madison     5 Jan 2017  2 Feb 2017
                               BIOENERGY                            11:55 PM
                               CTR
The Great Lakes Bioenergy Research Center (GLBRC) is one of three Department of
Energy centers established to conduct fundamental, genomics-based research on
microbial and plant systems required to realize the national need for low-cost
biofuels. The GLBRC is housed at the University of Wisconsin with collaborators
at Michigan State University and other universities and national labs. As a
member of a research team of faculty, staff, post docs, and graduate students,
the Data Curator and Analyst will help organize, annotate and publish large,
complex data sets from a wide variety of research disciplines. The focus of
this position is to help develop and maintain a data catalog and a data
warehouse of various research data generated at GLBRC. The Data Curator and
Analyst will also help submit datasets to public data repositories such as NCBI
and DOE Systems Biology Knowledge Base. In addition to data, this position will
also help publish novel scientific software developed at GLBRC. In helping
manage this research/scientific data, the person hired into this position will
have heavy interfacing with end-users who are Researchers, Scientists, or
Software Developers.

Powered by PageUp

[                    ]

Work type

  • [ ]Staff-Full Time 1

Locations

  • [ ]Madison 1

Categories

  • [ ]Information Systems/Technology 1
  • [ ]Research, Scientific 1

[Filter Results]

More Jobs at UW

Custodial Positions
Postdoc Training
Student Job Center
Internal Vacancies
Referral Priority Candidates
Blue Collar Multi-Shift Vacancies

Help

Applicant Tutorial
Disability Accommodations

The University of Wisconsin is an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action
Employer.

E-Verify
 

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  

    Quick Links

  • Frequently Asked Questions
  • About UW
  • Visit Campus
  • Employee Benefits
  • Working at UW

 
Contact
Español Hmoob བོད་ཡིག 中文

Talent Recruitment and Engagement
Office of Human Resources
University of Wisconsin–Madison
21 N. Park Street, Suite 5101
Madison, WI 53715-1218

© 2016 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System • Privacy
Statement

UW Crest Logo <
