Your browser does not support JavaScript for this Google Analytics element!

Virginia Mason Memorial Virginia Mason Memorial

Open Site Menu Show or Hide Navigation Menu
For Employees and Medical Professionals
Virginia Mason Memorial Hospital Contact DetailsSearch

Contact: (509) 575-8000 Address: 2811 Tieton Drive, Yakima, WA 98902 Map this
address

  • Medical Services
  • Classes & Events
  • Patients & Visitors
  • Volunteer/Students
  • Pay Your Bill
  • Portal
  • Find A Job
  • About
  • Contact
  • For Employees & Healthcare Professionals

 1. Home
 2. Find A Job

Find A Job

[New Search] [Return To Jobs]
Send this job to a friend

Associate Data Scientist (Analytics and Visualization Specialist)
Department:   Signal Health
Schedule:     Exempt
Shift:        Day
Hours:        40
Configurated  Configuration 40 hour work week – Overtime accrues when working
Hours:        over 40 hours in a Sunday – Saturday work week
Job             • Bachelor's of Science
Requirements:   • At Virginia Mason Memorial, our vision is to "create healthy
                  communities one person at a time." This means that each
                  member of our award-winning team works to provide our
                  patients, and their families, with the best medical and
                  individual care possible.

                  Why do we do what we do? As the region's leading health care
                  provider and Yakima's largest employer, we believe that by
                  improving health, we will transform Yakima!  We work together
                  to demonstrate our values of Respect, Accountability,
                  Teamwork, Stewardship, and Innovation for everyone who walks
                  through our doors, patients and coworkers alike. Does this
                  sound like the place for you? We would love to hear from you!
                    Come be the best of the best with us!

                   

                  We offer competitive benefits and compensation, including a
                  generous 401K plan, medical, dental, vision, and life
                  insurance, an employee wellness clinic and leadership
                  development and education.


                  ROLE SUMMARY

                  The role of the Data Scientist is to discover, describe,
                  diagnose, predict, and solve complex problems through the
                  creation and use of analytic systems and visualization
                  techniques. All levels of Data Scientists use statistical
                  modeling, data mining and visualization techniques to create
                  value that improves patient care. The Data Scientist is also
                  capable of creating and integrating large data sets into
                  useable, actionable information.

                   

                  The Associate Data Scientist - Analytics and Visualization
                  Specialist assists with identifying and mining data,
                  performing statistical analyses, applying data visualization
                  techniques, and helping build high quality visualization
                  systems. This position is responsible for analyzing data and
                  customer requirements to produce actionable performance
                  indicators and automated reports thereby improving strategic
                  and operational performance. Analyses and metrics include but
                  are not limited to population health analysis, disease state
                  assessments, clinical and financial performance and provider
                  metrics. This person will have a unique opportunity to design
                  and implement data visualization tools in support of health
                  care initiatives. They will have exceptional analytic and
                  visualization skills. The employee will learn and understand
                  Memorial Family of Services (MFOS) clinically integrated
                  performance metrics and present the results through a user
                  friendly web portal. Expertise in the effective presentation/
                  visualization of data/findings is critical. Employee will use
                  SAS Business Intelligence Tools and SQL data bases.



                  QUALIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS

                  Education: Bachelor's degree preferred. Equivalent experience
                  may be substituted in lieu of degree.

                  Experience: Previous experience with data analysis,
                  extraction, and visualization using statistical software (R,
                  S-Plus, SAS, or similar), databases and scripting languages
                  (such as Python) preferred.


                  "Yakima Valley Memorial Hospital provides reasonable
                  accommodations to assist qualified individuals in order to
                  perform the essential duties/requirements their job requires.
                  The description is intended to provide only basic guidelines
                  for meeting job requirements and serves as merely a summary
                  rather than a complete listing of duties. Responsibilities,
                  knowledge, skills, abilities, and working conditions may
                  change as needs evolve. This job description does not
                  constitute a contract as employment is at will."





                   



Click Here to Apply Online

Current Employees Click Here to Apply Online



[New Search] [Return To Jobs]
back to top
  • Candidate FAQs
  • Employee Referral Program
  • Living in Yakima
  • Vision, Mission, Values
  • Awards & Accreditations
  • Meet Our Employees
  • Employees First
  • Information For Physicians
  • Request for Medical Staff Application
  • Request for Allied Health Professional Application

Back To Top

  • Medical Services
  • Classes & Events
  • Patients & Visitors
  • Volunteer/Students
  • Pay Your Bill
  • About Us
  • Find A Job
  • For Employees & Healthcare Professionals

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • YouTube
  • Pinterest
  • Feedback

Virginia Mason Memorial, 2811 Tieton Drive, Yakima, WA 98902

Tel: (509) 575-8000

© Your browser does not support JavaScript for displaying the Copryright year.

Site Map | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer

Your browser does not support JavaScript for displaying JQuery. Your browser
does not support JavaScript for displaying JQuery. Your browser does not
support JavaScript for displaying this site responsively. Your browser does not
support JavaScript for displaying RSS Feeds. Your browser does not support
JavaScript for displaying aditional text activated by this element. Your
browser does not support JavaScript for displaying scripts on this site.
