Skip to Main Content

  * Home
  * Search Jobs
  * Create Account
  * Log In
  * Help

  * About Virginia Tech
  * FAQs
  * Contact Us
  * Privacy Statement
  * University ADA Services
  * Equal Opportunity
  * Resources for Prospective Faculty
  * Resources for Prospective Employees
  * Annual Campus Security and Fire Safety Report
  * Back to Human Resources
  * Pay Band Ranges

Health Data Scientist

Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary
documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening.
 To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button.

If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the
Bookmark link.  If you would like to print a copy of this position for your
records, click on the Print Preview link.

Bookmark this Posting | Print Preview | Apply for this Job

Position Information

Position Information:

Working Title:  Health Data Scientist
 Faculty Rank:  To Be Determined
Posting Number: SR0160179
                Virginia Tech is a public land-grant university, committed to
                teaching and learning, research, and outreach to the
                Commonwealth of Virginia, the nation, and the world. Building
                on its motto of Ut Prosim (that I may serve), Virginia Tech is
                dedicated to InclusiveVT?serving in the spirit of community,
About Virginia  diversity, and excellence. We seek candidates who adopt and
     Tech:      practice the Principles of Community, which are fundamental to
                our on-going efforts to increase access and inclusion, and to
                create a community that nurtures learning and growth for all of
                its members. Virginia Tech actively seeks a broad spectrum of
                candidates to join our community in preparing leaders for the
                world.

                The Biocomplexity Institute of Virginia Tech (BI) broadly
                integrates disciplines ? from molecular science to policy
                analysis ? to address pressing challenges to human health,
                habitat, and well-being. We use an information biology approach
                to predict, explain, and visualize the behavior of massively
                interacting systems. The institute guides emergency response to
                epidemics, makes urban infrastructure more sustainable, and
                accelerates the discovery of treatments for chronic diseases.

                BI is seeking an outstanding researcher to join our
                interdisciplinary team and contribute to a variety of projects
                involving the analysis, simulation, and interpretation of
                health data, especially infectious disease. The work will be in
                support of operational organizations in the federal government,
                the state and local public health department, and part of
                federally funded research sponsored by NIH & NSF. The candidate
                will work in the Network Dynamics and Simulation Science
                Laboratory (NDSSL) and have the opportunity to interact and
   Position     collaborate within a diverse multidisciplinary team
   Summary:     representing the fields of computer science, statistics,
                economics, physics, software engineering, and bioinformatics.
                The (Senior) Health Data Scientist will be expected to assist
                in the development of grant proposals and publications, and
                presenting findings at scientific meetings, as needed. Primary
                responsibilities will be assisting and leading multiple applied
                research projects using analysis and simulation to address
                public health policy questions.

                This position will hold the faculty rank of either research
                associate or senior research associate according to candidate
                qualifications. For more information on the university faculty
                ranks, please review the faculty ranks for research faculty at
                http://provost.vt.edu/faculty_affairs/faculty_handbook/
                chapter06/chapter06.html

                In accordance with university policy for non-student positions,
                this position will require a conviction check.

                - MPH, M.S., or bachelor?s degree with significant relevant
                professional experience, in Epidemiology, Biostatistics,
                Computational Biology, or other quantitative health field; or
                for rank of Senior Research Associate, PhD or MS with
                significant relevant professional experience in Epidemiology,
                Biostatistics, Computational Biology or other quantitative
                health field.
                - Strong evidence of commitment to and understanding of
                biological/biomedical research, especially as it pertains to
                infectious diseases.
                - Experience in analyzing population health data and
                interpreting its impact and use for answering policy and
                epidemic decision support questions.
                - Demonstrable knowledge of scientific computing environments,
   Required     e.g. unix, statistical analysis programs (R, Python, SAS,
Qualifications: etc.),
                - Strong communication skills and the ability to work
                effectively with other team members. For rank of Senior
                Research Associate, must have demonstrated experience leading
                an internal team (not necessarily in a supervisory role).
                - Evidence of peer-reviewed scientific papers and other high
                quality writing.
                - Evidence of successful participation in collaborative
                research projects. For rank of Senior Research Associate, must
                have demonstrated experience in leading a multi-group
                collaboration
                - Ability to travel (domestically and/or internationally) to
                meet with collaborators, make conference presentations, and
                work with researchers.

                - Familiarity with mathematical modeling of disease
   Preferred    - Strong ability to visualize complex datasets
Qualifications: - Familiarity with geospatial analyses

  Employment
  Conditions:
  Must have a
  conviction    Yes
    check:
Describe Other:
  Employment
   Comments:
                For more information and to apply for this position, please go
                to www.jobs.vt.edu and search for posting SR0160179. Review of
 How to Apply   applications will begin on December 6, 2016
 for this Job:
                Candidates best meeting a combination of required and preferred
                qualifications will be contacted directly.

   Employee     Research Faculty
   Category:
  Appointment   Restricted
     Type:
 If restricted
 or temporary,
enter end date:
 FLSA Status:   Exempt: Not eligible for overtime
Tenure Status:  Non-Tenure Track
 Academic Year
  or Calendar   Calendar Year
     Year:
    Percent     Full-time
  Employment:
 If part time,
 enter Percent
     Time:
   Pay Band
  Pay Range:    Commensurate with Experience
  Department:   Biocomplexity Institute
   Location:    Blacksburg
 Location, if
not Blacksburg:
 Location Zip   24061
     Code:
Work Schedule:  M-F; 8-5+
  Job Posting   11/22/2016
     Date:
 Review Begin   12/06/2016
     Date:
Job Close Date
      (if
 applicable):
 Restricted to
  university
employees only?
                Virginia Tech does not discriminate against employees,
                students, or applicants on the basis of age, color, disability,
                gender, gender identity, gender expression, national origin,
                political affiliation, race, religion, sexual orientation,
                genetic information, or veteran status; or otherwise
     Equal      discriminate against employees or applicants who inquire about,
 Opportunity/   discuss, or disclose their compensation or the compensation of
  Affirmative   other employees, or applicants; or any other basis protected by
    Action      law.
  Statement:
                For inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies, contact
                the executive director for Equity and Access at 540-231-2010 or
                Virginia Tech, North End Center, Suite 2300 (0318), 300 Turner
                St. NW, Blacksburg, VA 24061.

  Reasonable    If you are an individual with a disability and desire
 Accommodation  accommodation please contact the hiring department.
  Statement:
  Quick Link:   http://listings.jobs.vt.edu/postings/71640

Supplemental Questions

Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*).

 1. * Please describe recruiting source identified in previous question (if
    applicable):

    (Open Ended Question)

 2. * How did you first learn about this job opening?
      + Chronicle of Higher Education - online
      + Chronicle of Higher Education - print
      + Higher Ed Jobs (www.higheredjobs.com)
      + Higher Education Recruitment Consortium - HERC (www.hercjobs.org)
      + Diverse Jobs (www.diversejobs.net)
      + Insight Into Diversity (www.careers.insightintodiversity.com)
      + Indeed (www.indeed.com)
      + Roanoke Times Online (www.jobs.roanoke.com)
      + Commonwealth of Virginia Jobs (www.jobs.virginia.gov)
      + Virginia Tech job site (www.jobs.vt.edu)
      + Facebook
      + LinkedIn
      + Twitter
      + Job Fair (please describe below)
      + Journal (please describe below)
      + Listserv (please describe below)
      + Newspaper - print (please describe below)
      + Professional Conference (please describe below)
      + From a friend/acquaintance not associated with Virginia Tech (please
        name below)
      + From a Virginia Tech employee/representative/recruiter (please name
        below)
      + Veteran related event/site (please describe below)
      + Virginia Employment Commission - VEC
      + Other Virginia Tech affiliated website (please describe below)
      + Other job board such as Simply Hired, Career Builder, etc. (please
        describe below)
      + Other - Not listed (please describe below)

Required Documents

Required Documents

 1. Resume/Curriculum Vita

Optional Documents

 1. Cover Letter
 2. List of References

