Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Sr. Statistician

Sr. Statistician

ID 
    2015-1557

Job Location 
    US-SC-Spartanburg

Posted Date 
    12/27/2016

More information about this job:

Overview:

The Senior Statistician will have either a graduate or post-graduate level
education and will use statistical analysis and intuition to solve business
problems.  This individual will have an entrepreneurial spirit with a knack for
solving problems to learn the latest statistical techniques and take on
increasing levels of responsibility as they grow.

   

Supervisory Responsibility

This position has no supervisory responsibilities.

 

Work Environment and Physical Demands

This job operates in a professional office environment. This role routinely
uses standard office equipment such as computers, phones, photocopiers, filing
cabinets and fax machines.

 

Position Type/Expected Hours of Work

This is a full-time position. Days of work are Monday through Friday.  The
daily schedule may vary from 8 am to 5 pm or 9 am to 6 pm.  Hours may vary or
exceed 40 in any given week depending on the needs of the business.

 

Travel

No travel is expected for this position.

 

EEO Statement

ACA provides equal employment opportunities (EEO) to all applicants for
employment without regard to race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation,
gender identity or expression, national origin, age, disability, genetic
information, marital status, amnesty, or status as a covered veteran in
accordance with applicable federal, state and local laws.  ACA complies with
applicable state and local laws governing non-discrimination in employment in
every location in which the company has facilities.

 

Please note this job description is not designed to cover or contain a
comprehensive listing of activities, duties or responsibilities that are
required of the employee for this job. Duties, responsibilities and activities
may change at any time with or without notice.

Responsibilities:

Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities
to perform the essential functions.

  • Collaborating with others to understand the business problem
  • Collecting, retrieving and understanding data
  • Analyzing data, building models and assessing their quality
  • Designing experiments and assessing their results
  • Monitoring model performance and making recommendations
  • Communicating results and recommendations to senior management
  • Identifying opportunities to apply statistics to improve business
    performance

Qualifications:

  • Experience with logistic regression, decision trees, survival analysis,
    design of experiment and other statistical techniques
  • Communicating clearly and concisely to individuals from various backgrounds
  • Influencing others in both verbal and written mediums
  • Entrepreneurial spirit
  • Hunger to learn and grow
  • Master’s degree in Statistics or similar quantitative field of study
  • Working knowledge of SAS, R or similar statistical programming package

 

Preferred:

  • Experience with relational databases
  • Strong R programming skills
  • 1-2 years’ experience in statistical modeling
  • PhD in Statistics or similar degree

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed

  • Send this job opportunity to a friend, colleague, or family member:

●Go back to the Search and Apply page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

