Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Bioinformatics Analyst I - Molecular Biology Core

Bioinformatics Analyst I - Molecular Biology Core

Job ID 
    2016-4457

Location 
    US-MA-Boston

Category 
    Bioinformatics

Type 
    full time

Grade 
    22

Job Posted Date 
    11/8/2016

More information about this job

Overview

Located in Boston and the surrounding communities, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute
brings together world renowned clinicians, innovative researchers and dedicated
professionals, allies in the common mission of conquering cancer, HIV/AIDS and
related diseases. Combining extremely talented people with the best
technologies in a genuinely positive environment, we provide compassionate and
comprehensive care to patients of all ages; we conduct research that advances
treatment; we educate tomorrow's physician/researchers; we reach out to
underserved members of our community; and we work with amazing partners,
including other Harvard Medical School-affiliated hospitals.

Provides assistance to faculty and research staff in the collection,
management, analysis and interpretation of biological data, with a focus on the
analysis of data from genomic, transcriptomic, proteomic, or microarray
studies.

Responsibilities

  * Interprets complex biological information. Performs tasks to reduce and
    consolidate output from software. Prepares data for utilization by other
    scientists.
  * Monitors new data from public databases, finds and loads missed data,
    cleans loaded data to satisfy quality control criteria.
  * Must be able to query various sources for the information needed; i.e., the
    Web, publications and internal DFCI resources.
  * Directs and guides DNA, RNA and protein sequence database searches and the
    computational analysis of resulting data.
  * Implements end-users needs in database searching and integration.
  * Maintains the computational infrastructure and controls the flow of samples
    and information for large-scale studies. 
  * Recognizes and reports problems with the data management process and fixes
    the problems whenever possible.

Qualifications

  * Bachelors degree required, MS preferred in bioinformatics, computer science
    and/or the life sciences and 0-2 years relevant experience.
  * Familiarity with simple programming using Perl/Python or Java, C/C++,
    statistical programming using R or related tools, web-development, and
    database query through SQL.
  * Familiarity with principles of experimental design and modern data analysis
    paradigms is required.
  * Strong interpersonal skills and ability to effectively interact with all
    levels of staff and external contacts.
  * Excellent analytical, organizational and time management skills.



Dana-Farber Cancer Institute is an equal opportunity employer and affirms the
right of every qualified applicant to receive consideration for employment
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, gender identity or expression,
national origin, sexual orientation, genetic information, disability, age,
ancestry, military service, protected veteran status, or other groups as
protected by law.

Options

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
#Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

