Skip to main content
dchr
Department of Human Resources
 

DC Agency Top Menu

DC.gov Home

DC Government Career Opportunities

Careers

  * Return To Job Search
  * Log In
  * Register

Powered by OCTO

Job Title:                             STATISTICIAN
Requisition Number:                    JO-1612-7505
Grade:                                 13
Salary Range:                          $87,657.00 - $112,956.00
Promotion Potential:                   No
Agency:                                Department of Health
Location:                              899 N. Capitol St NE
Area of Consideration:                 Open to the Public
Opening/Closing Date:                  12/22/2016 - 2/5/2017

Share | |[email_icon]Email this job

Bring your professional career to Washington, D.C., the most dynamic and
diverse city in the country.  With its proximity to major museums, world class
parks, entertainment and restaurants, increasing job opportunities and the seat
of the federal government, the District of Columbia continues to be ranked the
top 10 thriving city indicators where you can live work and play.  Contribute
to and work for a nationally accredited Health Department.  The District of
Columbia Department of Health (DOH) earned national accreditation by the Public
Health Accreditation Board (PHAB) and is an early adopter in attaining the
designation.  Come see where your skills are appreciated and rewarded by
applying for the following public health opportunity.
 
Job Summary
This position is located within the Department of Health (DOH), Center for
Policy, Planning and Evaluation (CPPE), Data Management and Analysis Division
(DMAD).  The incumbent works under the general supervision of the Supervisory
Statistician/Division Chief and serves as an expert statistician and data
processing advisor for the Division as it relates to statistical work
processes.  Conceives, plans, and conducts studies to evaluate the
effectiveness of health and social programs.  Determines nature of statistical
problems needing investigation and determines most feasible approach to the
solution of such problems.  Plans, develops, and coordinates appropriate
methodologies to collect and process statistical data for the assessment of
projects designed to address specific health and social issues, e.g., infant
mortality, health disparities and health inequities.  Incumbent acts as
consultant to program administrators on request, advising them on technical
management, and procedural matters; helps to establish data collection criteria
by which success or failure of health and social program may be measured or
evaluated.  Assists the Division Chief in preparation of the budget by
providing advice concerning needs for equipment, software, personnel, and other
resources.
 
This vacancy is for Career Service - CS-1530-13, Term Appointment ? NTE 13
months, with no known promotion potential.  This position is in the collective
bargaining unit represented by AFGE Local 2725 and you may be required to pay
an agency service fee through direct payroll deduction.
 
This Vacancy Announcement is Open for 45 days.  Application screening dates are
as follows:
January 21, 2017
February 5, 2017
 
Qualifications
Knowledge of health, medical and social services programs, Department policies
and procedures, and organizational relationships within the Department of
Health.
Knowledge of the methods for the design and presentation of varied and complex
statistical studies requiring the application of statistical theories,
techniques, and methods; ability to organize, summarize, and communicate
results using tabular, graphic, or narrative output.
Knowledge of the appropriate statistical methodology to conduct surveys of the
District?s population.
Knowledge of the statistical theory and methods necessary for program
evaluation, including the design of probability samples, sampling techniques,
and simulation models.
Knowledge of automatic data processing techniques, equipment and software,
including the demonstrated ability to write data retrieval and statistical
manipulation programs using various software packages, e.g., SAS and
Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS).
Thorough knowledge of and experience in the management and use of vital
records, such as birth and death data; knowledge of and experience in
compliance with administrative, physical and technical safeguards for
protecting the confidentiality and security of individually identifiable health
information.
Knowledge of and demonstrated ability to use the techniques for writing clear,
concise, interesting, and effective reports.
Ability to work with a team of people on group projects and to serve as a team
leader when necessary.
 
Licensures, Certifications and other requirements
None Required
 
Position Designation
Please be advised that this position has been identified and designated as a
Security Sensitive position subject to a mandatory Pre-employment Biennial
Criminal Background Check, Pre-employment Consumer Credit Check and Traffic
Record Check (as applicable/biennial).
 
Education
Degree: that included 15 semester hours in statistics (or in mathematics and
statistics, provided at least 6 semester hours were in statistics), and 9
additional semester hours in one or more of the following: physical or
biological sciences, medicine, education, or engineering; or in the social
sciences including demography, history, economics, social welfare, geography,
international relations, social or cultural anthropology, health sociology,
political science, public administration, psychology, etc. Credit toward
meeting statistical course requirements should be given for courses in which 50
percent of the course content appears to be statistical methods, e.g., courses
that included studies in research methods in psychology or economics such as
tests and measurements or business cycles, or courses in methods of processing
mass statistical data such as tabulating methods or electronic data processing.

Or 

Combination of education and experience -- courses as shown above, plus
appropriate experience or additional education. The experience should have
included a full range of professional statistical work such as (a) sampling,
(b) collecting, computing, and analyzing statistical data, and (c) applying
statistical techniques such as measurement of central tendency, dispersion,
skewness, sampling error, simple and multiple correlation, analysis of
variance, and tests of significance.
 
Work Experience
One (1) year of Specialized Experience must be equivalent to at least the CS-12
grade level in the District of Columbia Service.  Specialized experience is
experience which is directly related to the position which has equipped the
applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully
perform the duties of the position.
 
Work Environment
The work is performed in an office setting.  The incumbent observes normal
safety precautions while working with sophisticated automatic data processing
equipment, office files, and other office equipment.


Would you like to apply to this job?

Log In if already registered

otherwise

Please Register


Previous Month[January  ]Next Month[2016]
Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
Today
