Skip Navigation
ASSURANT SOLUTIONS
Contact Us
NYSEAIZ65.680
 
MENU

  •  

    Customer Support

  •  

    Products & Services

  •  

    About Assurant

  •  

    Careers

  •  

    Investor Relations

  •  

    NewsRoom

Search Jobs

Keyword Search [                    ]

City, State, or ZIP [                    ]

Search radius [Radius  ]

  • Culture & People
  • Rewards & Benefits

Data Scientist

Apply Requisition Number 49001

This Data Scientist will be a core member of the Data Analytics team and will
play a significant role in helping Assurant advance and create data driven
solutions. In this role, the Data Scientist incorporates techniques across many
disciplines – including mathematics/statistics, computer programming, data
engineering, data management, visualization and ETL. The incumbent will support
analytics product development and high performance computing with traditional
business expertise with the goal of using data to optimize future business
decisions. Also, the incumbent will act as an evangelist for data science and
be an expert/fluent in several of these data science disciplines; sufficiently
proficient in others to effectively design, build, and deliver end-to-end
predictive analytics products to optimize business decisions; will enjoy
working with some of the most diverse global data sets, cutting edge
technology, and the ability to see data insights turned into real business
results on a regular basis. This role requires to partner with leaders in
various divisions, clients and geographies, in order to ensure that
increasingly more data driven solutions are brought to the Data Analytics
group. This individual will support a variety of product and service across all
line of businesses within Assurant Solutions and will utilize in-depth
understanding of data, database management systems, statistics, predictive
modeling, and machine learning.


Basic Qualifications Required - Experience, Skills, and Knowledge

  ● Master Degree in a quantitative field, such as Data Analytics, Statistics,
    Mathematics, Computer Science, Finance.
  ● 3+ years of relevant experience in analytics, statistical/quantitative
    modeling and/or machine Learning tools (R, Python, etc) and in using
    various database tools (e.g. Hadoop, SQL) processing large volumes of
    structured and unstructured data.

Other Requirements:

  ● Experience in managing and manipulating large, complex datasets and
    techniques to build models that have driven company decision making.
  ● Experience in working with any or all of statistical/data processing
    software such as R, SAS, Weka, SPSS, MatLab, CART etc.
  ● Experience in database such as SQL, Hadoop, NoSQL, and Massively Parallel
    Processing (MPP) databases.
  ● Proficient and ability to code and develop prototypes in programming
    languages in Python, Java, Perl, JEE, .Net, C#, or C++.
  ● Ability to work with unstructured data, whether it is from digital, social
    media, video feeds or audio, and device logs, etc.
  ● Advocate machine learning principles to become a SME within the
    organization.
  ● Organized and capable of independently managing complex analytical projects
    from start to finish.
  ● Ability to independently structure analyses data; interpret moderate to
    complex analytical concepts/models and communicate the findings to a
    non-technical audience.
  ● Ability to provide written and oral interpretation of highly specialized
    terms and data, and ability to present this data to others with different
    levels of expertise.
  ● Demonstrated analytic agility.
  ● Understanding of the Insurance industry/market place and regulation
    preferred

Preferred Experience, Skills, and Knowledge

  ● Experience with Excel VBA/macros, Tableau, and/or Microsoft Power BI a plus
  ● Ability to effectively communicate with both business and technical teams
  ● Ability to coordinate with external providers and vendors regarding data
    and technology solutions
  ● Self-reliant, able to work independently and manage personal time on
    multiple projects simultaneously.
  ● Solid communicator, particularly with less technical project stakeholders
    and customers, as well as with architects from various disciplines.
  ● Persuasive, can make an effective case to the project core team justifying
    the use of a specific solution/model or technology.
  ● Confident in skills and expertise, willing to take measured risks and
    defend positions
  ● Professional team player and ability to adapt dynamic work environment with
    a high degree of change


Location Atlanta, Georgia Apply

Share

  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • LinkedIn
  • Email

Connect With Us

  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • LinkedIn
  • YouTube

Company Profile

Assurant, Inc. (NYSE: AIZ) is a global provider of risk management solutions,
protecting where consumers live and the goods they buy. A Fortune 500 company,
Assurant focuses on the housing and lifestyle markets, and is among the market
leaders in mobile device protection; extended service contracts; vehicle
protection; pre-funded funeral insurance; renters insurance; lender-placed
homeowners insurance; and mortgage valuation and field services. With
approximately $30 billion in assets as of March 31, 2016 and $8 billion in
annual revenue for the year ended 2015, Assurant is located in 16 countries,
while its Assurant Foundation works to support and improve communities. Learn
more at assurant.com or on Twitter @AssurantNews.

Benefits:

We offer a competitive salary and comprehensive benefits to full time and part
time employees including medical, dental, STD, LTD, life insurance, 401(k),
generous paid time off and much more. We strive to maintain a professional, yet
friendly environment and promote professional and career development for our
employees.

* Assurant Affiliate Benefits Program may be available for some positions.

http://www.assurant.com/Careers/RewardsAndBenefits

EEO Statement

Assurant is an Equal Employment Opportunity employer. All aspects of
consideration for employment and employment with the Company are governed on
the basis of merit, competence and qualifications without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, veteran status, sexual
orientation, gender identity or any other category protected by federal, state,
or local law.

Employee Spotlight

Nathalie Cortes-Colon, Material Processor and her mother, Joannie Maldonado,
Mobile Technician

Awards

Assurant Solutions is a great place to work. But don't take our word for it.
All around the world, Assurant Solutions is winning awards for being a great
place to work.

canidate experiance award energy star award well workplace gold award

Assurant Values Our Military

If you are transitioning from service, a veteran, part of the National Guard
reserves or a military spouse you should consider Assurant. We invite you to
explore the job opportunities Assurant provides.

Meet Our Employees

Hugo - Airman

Branch of Miltary: Navy Rank: E-3/Airman MOS: AD - Jet Mech

To see job opportunities and meet more employees.

Click Here

Job Alerts

Name[                    ]

Email Address[                    ]

Phone Number[                    ]

Interested InSearch for a category, location, or category/location pair, select
a term from the suggestions, and click "Add".

Category[                    ]

Location[                    ]

Add

  • Business Analyst, Atlanta, Georgia, United StatesRemove
  • Remove

Confirm Email [                    ]

[Sign Up]

  • Assurant Solutions
  • Assurant Specialty Property

  • Home
  • Products & Services
  • Customer Support
  • About Assurant
  • Careers
  • Newsroom
  • Investor Relations
  • Contact Us
  • Site Map

  •  
  •  

©2017 Assurant, Inc. All rights reserved

Legal Notice

Privacy Policy

