PlaceIQ Careers

Software Engineer/Data Scientist - Innovation

Innovation New York, New York

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Apply

Description

About the Company

PlaceIQ is a powerful, location-based audience and insights platform that
organizes a wide variety of consumer activity data around a precise location
base map at massive scale. PlaceIQ uses its detailed understanding of location
and consumer activity to reach a targeted audience, and also to derive powerful
insights about consumer behavior to inform market and business strategies for
national brands. The company is headquartered in New York City and has offices
in Palo Alto, Chicago, and Detroit. 

Summary

Having already assembled an exceptionally skilled, diverse and passionate group
of developers and data scientists, we are looking for world-class engineers
that can (or are willing to learn how to?) do it all.  From web front ends to
regression models/classification algorithms, complex data visualizations to
geospatial clustering, a full stack enterprise platform to big data analytics,
PlaceIQ technologists live for huge challenges and know how to deliver in a
fast paced, agile environment.  Our unique culture breeds excellence and
embraces creativity as we look to innovate and drive our business forward.  If
you have a passion for imagining and building technology solutions that will
make an immediate impact in an untapped space, we want to talk to you!

The Role:

Members of the Innovation Team at PlaceIQ are certified ?jacks of all trades?
looking to apply an entrepreneurial spirit to dreaming, designing, developing
and deploying novel software solutions.  Known as the company?s universal,
front-line problem solvers, Innovation Engineers use their diverse skillsets to
ideate and quickly iterate towards Minimum Viable Products (MVPs).  These
prototypes are then released to actual customers with the end goal of becoming
a v1 product that will generate massive revenue and possibly even disrupt the
entire industry!

The successful candidate will embrace the multi-disciplinary nature of the
position extending beyond functional boundaries to produce game-changing
results.  This means our Innovators will need to put on their product
management hats to deeply understand the ecosystem with an eye towards creating
a major disruption.  Our Innovators will have to become social anthropologists/
analysts to uncover the hidden truths from petabytes of geospatial data.  Our
Innovators will have to seek out and define new lines of business where our
data and our platform may be applied.  Finally, our Innovators will be the
constant force of change that drives technology and business groups across to
new levels of excellence each and every day.

Minimum Requirements:

  * BS in Computer Science/Engineering, Mathematics, Physics or related field
  * Proven development experience (5-7 years) with Java or another other high
    level programming language
  * Familiarity with Hadoop/Hive/Pig and other big data/NoSQL systems
  * Experience in UNIX/Linux environments
  * Solid foundation in Computer Science fundamentals from data structures and
    algorithms to high level design patterns
  * Scripting experience using numerical methods in Python (specifically with
    Python ?scientific? platform) and/or R

 

Preferred Qualifications:

  * MS/PhD in Computer Science/Engineering, Mathematics, Physics or related
    field
  * Background in applied mathematics and statistics
  * Proficiency in developing MVPs/fast product iterations using agile
    methodologies
  * Prior experience in advertising technology (online and/or mobile)
  * Development experience with mobile (iOS and/or Android) SDKs and the full
    web services stack
  * Familiarity with machine learning algorithms

 

This position will ideally be located in New York, NY but exceptions may be
made.  Candidates must be authorized to work in the United States on a
full-time basis for any employer. 

Salary/Equity compensation commensurate on experience.

 

Apply Apply Later
? Back to Current Openings
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Share

LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Email
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Similar Jobs

{{ job.title }}

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Powered by Jobvite

