Skip to Main Content
University of Pittsburgh
PittSource

  • Home
  • Search Jobs
  • Create Account
  • Log In
  • Help

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

 Search Opportunities:

Executive

Faculty

Research Associate

Staff - Regular

Staff - Temporary

Student - All Opportunities

Student - FWS* Required

Student - FWS* Not Required

Union

 ^*FWS - Federal Work Study

 How to Apply & FAQ's

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

 2013 AARP Best Employers Vibrant Pittsburgh

 Connect with us...

   Facebook  Twitter

Research Scientist

If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the
Bookmark link.  If you would like to print a copy of this position for your
records, click on the Print Preview link.

If you need assistance completing your application or applying for a job, call
our applicant help line at (412) 624-7000 Option #3

Bookmark this Posting | Print Preview | Apply for this Job

Position Information

Position Information

  Date Posted   12/22/2016
 Working Title  Research Scientist
      Job       Research Scientist
Classification
Department Name 33203-Pharm-Pharmaceutical Science
   Job Type     Staff
Position Number 0134558
 Hiring Range   TBD based on qualifications
                The Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences in the University of
                Pittsburgh School of Pharmacy is seeking a qualified Research
                Scientist.

                The applicant should have prior experience with pharmaceutical
                analysis. They must have mastered a variety of analytical
                techniques, instrumentation and software with emphasis on mass
                spectrometry (MS) and high performance liquid chromatography (
   Position     HPLC). The duties will include analytical methods development
  Description   and implementation, oversight and review of bioanalytical data
                generated by the labs, project management, supervision of staff
                and students. The individual will keep accurate records,
                analyze data, and assist with manuscript, grant and report
                preparation. The ideal candidate will be highly motivated,
                detail oriented, able to prioritize multiple tasks and work
                independently. The applicant must have at minimum of a PhD in
                Analytical Chemistry or Pharmaceutical Chemistry and previous
                experience.

   Education    PhD or ScD
   Required
Minimum Related
  Experience    3-5 years experience
Level Required
                At least 5 years of experience in pharmaceutical analysis and
  Additional    methods development. Previous involvement with mentoring of
Education and/  trainees or students. Knowledge of regulatory and quality
 or Experience  requirements for pharmaceutical analysis. Project Management
 Essential to   skills. Familiarity of generation of SOPs and conducting
 the Position   research in a GLP environment. Excellent writing skills.

   Required
   Licenses/
Certifications
                The following PA Act 153 clearances and background checks may
     Child      be required prior to commencement of employment and as a
  Protection    condition of continued employment: PA State Police Criminal
  Clearances    Record Check, FBI Criminal Record Check, PA Child Abuse History
                Clearance.

  Assignment    Regular, Full-Time
   Category
Percent Effort  100
Scheduled Work  8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
     Hours
If Varied Work
   Schedule,
Please Specify
 If Part Time,
Actual Standard
 Weekly Hours
    Campus      Pittsburgh
                The University offers an excellent comprehensive benefits
                package for all full-time and part-time regular employees
                including:
                • Education benefits and a retirement plan with employer match
                • Group medical insurance, life insurance, and optional vision
  University    and dental insurance
   Benefits     • Free transit service within Allegheny County for employees of
                the Oakland campus (Port Authority Transit)
                • Time off benefits including vacation, sick and personal time

                For more information regarding the University’s benefits
                package, please visit www.hr.pitt.edu/benefits

Supplemental Questions

Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*).

 1. * Do you have a PhD or ScD or will have completed one by the end of this
    current term?
      □ Yes
      □ No
 2. * How did you hear of this position at the University of Pittsburgh?
      □ Career Development Center (CDC)
      □ Chronicle of Higher Education
      □ Commonwealth Workforce Development System (Formerly PA CareerLink)
      □ Craigslist.org
      □ Currently a University Employee
      □ Dice.com
      □ Monster.com
      □ Pitt Career Services
      □ Pittsburgh Post Gazette
      □ Pittsburgh Technology Council
      □ PittSource Search
      □ Referral (Friend, University Employee, etc.), please specify below
      □ StudentAffairs.com
      □ Higheredjobs.com
      □ Indeed.com
      □ Internet Search
      □ Other: (Please specify below)
 3. * Please specify from above (if applicable):

    (Open Ended Question)

Applicant Documents

Required Documents

 1. Curriculum Vitae

Optional Documents

 1. Cover Letter
 2. Resume

  • Office of Human Resources

    100 Craig Hall
    Pittsburgh, PA 15260
    412-624-7000

     
    Submit an Online Question
  • HR Quick Links

    Benefits
    Careers
    Compensation & Classification
    Diversity
    Temporary Employment
    Why Work at Pitt
    Work/Life
  • Resources

    Campus Safety
    E-Verify
    Job Family Descriptions
    Map and Directions
    Required Workplace Postings
    Site Security

                         University of Pittsburgh Logo

    The University of Pittsburgh is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity
Employer and values equality of opportunity, human dignity and diversity. EEO/
                             AA/M/F/Vets/Disabled
                                                                               
