[wish]

Data Science Engineer

San Francisco
Engineering - Relevancy
Full-time
Apply for this job

Data driven decision-making is an integral part of life at Wish. It drives our
success with customers and merchants. We?re looking for talented Research
Scientists to continue to drive decisions company-wide through the use of
statistical modeling and machine learning.

You should have an extensive background in a quantitative field, a strong
research background, and experience working with large data sets. You should be
results-driven, highly motivated, and have a track record of using data
analytics to drive the understanding, growth, and the success of a product.

What you'll be doing

      + Developing data infrastructure that is able to ingest and transform
        data at huge scale coming from many different sources, different
        customers, and in many different varieties.
      + Developing machine learning infrastructure that can generalize across
        hundreds of thousands of Wish customers, but is expressive enough to
        actually generate high lift.
      + Brainstorming data product ideas with the data scientists and engineers
        that built some of the most exciting data products that hundreds of
        millions people use every day.

Who you are

      + You have to be a very quick learner - we face new challenges every day.
        No school could prepare you for all of these, so you need to be very
        quick on your feet.
      + We develop real products. You need to be an expert in coding
      + We have massive scale. You need to have experience in distributed,
        scalable systems. Consistency / availability tradeoffs are made here.
        You?ve tinkered with modern data storage, messaging, and processing
        tools (Kafka, Spark, Hadoop, Cassandra, etc.)
      + We run on AWS. You should have some notion of how to build, test, and
        deploy code to run on cloud infrastructure.
      + ?You have to be self sufficient - we are a billion dollar startup, so
        everyone might do a bit of everything to get things done. We are
        looking for people who want to excel at everything they do, while still
        being able to prioritize between the must-haves and nice-to-haves.

Company Description

Wish brings together top technical talent from Google, Facebook, LinkedIn,
Uber, Pinterest, and Yahoo! Wish, www.wish.com, is changing the way people shop
by making it more convenient and accessible to everyone on a global scale. We
are passionate about connecting relevant products to relevant people. Using our
top-notch recommendation system, we create a personalized shopping experience
for each of our users. It?s a digital mall, right in your back pocket!

Wish was launched in November 2011 and already has over 200 million registered
users, making it one of the top 5 mobile shopping applications, and highest
downloaded shopping app on Black Friday 2015!

Learn more about us:
- Recode
- TechCrunch


Apply for this job

Wish Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
