Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Predictive Modeling Analyst I

Predictive Modeling Analyst I

Job ID 
    2016-43470

# of Openings Remaining 
    1

Location 
    US-MD-West Bethesda

Category 
    Scientific

Residency Status 
    U.S. Citizenship Required

Clearance 
    Secret

Employee Type 
    Regular

Desired Experience 
    ..

Time Type 
    Full Time

More information about this job:

Overview:

Vencore is a proven provider of information solutions, engineering and
analytics for the U.S. Government. With more than 40 years of experience
working in the defense, civilian and intelligence communities, Vencore designs,
develops and delivers high impact, mission-critical services and solutions to
overcome its customers most complex problems.

Headquartered in Chantilly, Virginia, Vencore employs 3,800 engineers,
analysts, IT specialists and other professionals who strive to be the best at
everything they do.

Vencore is an AA/EEO Employer - Minorities/Women/Veterans/Disabled

Responsibilities:

This project will provide support for the Navy's Tactical Signature Guidance
and associated training systems. Support will be in the form of acoustic
signature modeling, software/system development, upgrades, integration, testing
and maintenance for a variety of antisubmarine warfare-related systems and
suites such as: Sonar Tactical Decision Aid (STDA), Sonar Performance
Predictions Functional Segment (SPPFS-STDA), and the Sonar Tactical Decision
Aid for IUSS (STDA-I). In addition to supporting these tactical decision
systems, the project will include computer modeling through the continued
development of the Scalable Tactical Propagation Loss Engine (STAPLE) and
STAPLE Toolkit. Interface development and integration of the tactical decision
aids and support modules with additional undersea warfare tactical support
systems such as USW-DSS, LCS ASW Mission Package, and Aircraft Carrier-Tactical
Support Center configurations. Training systems support include IMAT, PC-IMAT,
and IMAT.Explorer.

Qualifications:

Requires 0 to 2 years with BS/BA or 6 to 8 years no degree.

 

The Scientist Level 1 shall provide scientific program support for Task Orders
within this program. This will include the design, testing, implementation, and
post-process analysis of acoustic models that support and validate the tactical
decision aids and other tools used in tactical signature guidance support.
Working with programmers and engineers, leverage the common signature guidance
modeling tools developed for acoustic sensors and extend the common
architecture to support non-acoustic sensor modeling. Support documentation,
delivery, integration and testing of software and systems. Maintain the
operational versions of software and systems through fleet updates and
configuration management.

Technical efforts will support Sonar Tactical Decision Aid (STDA) on
submarines, the Sonar Performance Predictions Functional Segment (SPPFS-STDA)
on surface ship configurations, and the Sonar Tactical Decision Aid for IUSS
(STDA-I) for surveillance systems. Efforts shall also support development of
the Scalable Tactical Propagation Loss Engine (STAPLE) and the STAPLE Toolkit
utilized for signature propagation modeling and analysis. Efforts will also
support interface development and integration of the sonar tactical decision
aids and supporting modules with additional undersea warfare tactical support
systems; such as Undersea Warfare Decision Support System (USW-DSS), LCS ASW
Mission Package Command and Control, and Aircraft Carrier-Tactical Support
Center (CV-TSC) configurations. Signature guidance training systems including
the Interactive Multisensor Analysis Training (IMAT), Interactive Multi-sensor
Analysis Trainer for the Personal Computer (PC-IMAT), and IMAT Explore shall
also be supported.

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
Share |


          Vencore is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer

#Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

