Skip to Main Content

  * about
  * benefits
  * employees

[2393418]

Jobs at USC

  * Home
  * Search Jobs
  * Create Account
  * Log In
  * Help

Jobs by category

ALL UNIVERSITY JOBS ALL FACULTY JOBS KECK HOSPITAL OF USC
USC NORRIS CANCER HOSPITAL USC VERDUGO HILLS HOSPITAL AUXILIARY SERVICES

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[2161407]

USC HIRING MANAGERS

Statistician II

Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary
documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening.
 To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button.

If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the
Bookmark link.  If you would like to print a copy of this position for your
records, click on the Print Preview link.

Bookmark this Posting | Print Preview | Apply for this Job

Posting Details

Posting Details

Requisition  1007448
     ID
Position ID  P01481782
  Academic   Statistician II
   Title
 Department  Dept. of Medicine/Westside
  Location   Health Sciences Campus
 Employment  Full-Time
    Type
 Percent of
  time for
 Part-time
  Position
 Employment  New
   Terms
Hiring Range $56,250- $99,999
             The University of Southern California (USC), founded in 1880, is
             the largest private employer in the City of Los Angeles. As an
             employee of USC, you will be a part of a world-class research
             university and a member of the ?Trojan Family,? which is comprised
             of the faculty, students and staff that make the university what
             it is.

             The Statistician will use clinical study data analyses and machine
             learning techniques to effectively extract and manipulate clinical
             data sets for analysis. This role involves close collaboration
             with a multi-disciplinary team of clinicians, computer scientists,
             mathematicians, statisticians, and economists. Additionally, the
             Statistician will perform statistical analyses of clinical data to
             discover novel associations between clinical/environmental/
             socioeconomic factors and disease status and/or outcome. They will
             develop input methodology and data file structure, overseeing data
             entry and maintenance of data files, including backups and hard
    Job      copies. Data sets may include high-dimensional multi-omic data,
Announcement time series from live cell microscopy, and complex clinical data
             from electronic medical records. They will perform low-level data
             manipulations, including locating/downloading data from public
             resources, populating databases, and data reformatting. In
             addition the candidate will design, code, test, debug, document
             and maintain computer programs for statistical analysis as needed;
             installing and testing software, overseeing maintenance of
             hardware and software. The ability to communicate effectively with
             researchers across these domains is essential to success in this
             position. Contributions will also be made to current and future
             development of grant applications, scientific research and
             scientific manuscripts for CAMM.

             The University of Southern California strongly values diversity
             and is committed to equal opportunity in employment. Women and
             men, and members of all racial and ethnic groups, people with
             disabilities, and veterans are encouraged to apply.

Job Category Laboratory and Research
    FLSA     Exempt

Minimum Qualifications

  Minimum    Master?s degree
 Education
  Minimum    3 years
 Experience
  Minimum    Biometry, Biostatistics or Statistics; mainframe and PC
  Field of   experience; experience with SAS, Epilog, BMDP, GLIM or SPSS and
 Expertise   programming languages such as FORTRAN, C++.

Preferred Qualifications

   Preferred    Master?s Degree
   Education
   Preferred    2 years
  Experience
  Supervises
 Supervises -
Nature of Work
Preferred Field Biometry, Biostatistics or Statistics; mainframe computer and
 of Expertise   PC experience; experience with SAS, Epilog, BMDP, GLIM or SPSS.

Additional Information

Special Instructions to Applicants
      Quicklink for Posting        http://jobs.usc.edu/postings/76027

Supplemental Questions

Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*).

Applicant Documents

Required Documents

 1. Resume/CV

Optional Documents

 1. Cover Letter

USC is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. All qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin,
protected veteran status, disability, or any other characteristic protected by
law or USC policy.

 

We provide reasonable accommodations to applicants and employees with
disabilities. Applicants with questions about access or requiring a reasonable
accommodation for any part of the application or hiring process should contact
USC Human Resources by phone at (213) 821-8100, or by email at uschr@usc.edu.
Inquiries will be treated as confidential to the extent permitted by law.

 

Read USC?s Clery Act Annual Security Report.

Required Legal Notices.

