Data Scientist Intern, User Modeling
Road Crew Summer Internship | Oakland, CA, United States



At Pandora, we're a unique collection of engineers, musicians, designers,
marketers, and world-class sellers with a common goal: to enrich lives by
delivering effortless personalized music enjoyment and discovery. People—the
listeners, the artists, and our employees—are at the center of our mission and
everything we do. Actually, employees at Pandora are a lot like the service
itself: bright, eclectic, and innovative. Collaboration is the foundation of
our workforce, and we’re looking for smart individuals who are self-motivated
and passionate to join us. Be a part of the engine that creates the soundtrack
to life. Discover your future at Pandora.

Want to understand what keeps millions of users tuning in to the most
sophisticated music service in the world?  In this role, you'll study the links
between music playlisting, advertising placements, and user behavior,
generating ideas and building models that drive Pandora's continued growth.


To land this gig, you will need:

  • PhD candidate in Math/Stats/CS/EE/Physics or in a quantitative field
  • Strong publication record in machine learning, stats, or similar fields
  • Ability to prototype and develop custom machine learning and/or signal
    processing algorithms
  • Familiarity with current research in machine learning
  • Good intuition with data, and understanding how users interact with Pandora
  • Proficiency in Python and/or Java
  • Hive, Hadoop or SQL a plus


Pandora is committed to diversity in its workforce. Pandora is an equal
employment opportunity employer and considers qualified applicants without
regard to gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, race, veteran or
disability status. Women and people of color are encouraged to apply.

Pandora is also a VEVRAA federal contractor. Pandora requests priority
referrals of protected veterans from each ESDS, as required by regulation.

If you believe you need a reasonable accommodation in order to search for a job
opening or to apply for a position, please contact us by sending an email to 
disability@pandora.com.



<< Back to Current Openings

[Apply]  ●



Jobvite




