[sosi_logo]

FacebookTwitterLinkedInGoogle+

Get the latest from SOSi through
social media updates and tweets.

  * About Us
      + History
      + The SOSi Story
      + Values, Ethics & Culture
      + Leadership
      + Board of Advisors
  * Solutions
      + Intelligence Solutions Group
          o Intelligence Analytics & Training
          o Information Technology & Systems Engineering
          o Language & Cultural Analysis
      + Mission Solutions Group
          o Base Operations Support
          o Engineering, Procurement & Construction
          o Operations & Maintenance
          o Security Assessment & Training
  * Careers
      + Current Openings
      + Apply
  * News
      + Press Releases
      + Events
      + Press Kit
  * Contact Us

[                    ] [ ]
[careers_banner]

Careers

  * Current Openings

Company Overview

For 25 years, clients in the private and public sectors have relied upon SOS
International LLC (SOSi) for critical operations in the world?s most
challenging environments. SOSi is privately held, was founded by its current
ownership in 1989, maintains corporate headquarters in New York City, and
specializes in providing logistics, construction, training, intelligence, and
information technology solutions to the defense, diplomatic, intelligence and
law enforcement communities.

All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment and will not
be discriminated against on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, or protected
veteran status.  SOSi takes affirmative action in support of its policy to
advance employment of individuals who are minorities, women, protected
veterans, and individuals with disabilities.



EXOVERA-160630-4470: Data Scientist
Job Category        IT/Engineering

Duty Location       U.S. - Virginia - Reston

Type of Position    Full Time

Requisition Number  EXOVERA-160630-4470

                     

JOB DESCRIPTION

Exovera, an SOS International LLC (SOSi) company, is seeking a Data Scientist
to join our team of media analysis professionals in our Reston office. In this
position you will help develop linguistic and quantitative based scoring and
analytics products that allow our media analysts to access and analyze
collected traditional and social media data. Our engineering team is small so
this is an opportunity for the right candidate to apply original research and
cutting edge techniques to design original products that have a high impact on
our overall business goals. The ideal candidate will have experience designing
quantitative analytic products in both traditional and social media analysis
space. They will have the ability to work independently to produce reports,
design custom analytics and contribute to the production of interactive
dashboards as outputs. Experience in data mining, computational linguistics,
Natural Language Processing, Machine Learning and Predictive analytics is a
must. Some experience developing solutions that utilize Elasticsearch, R,
D3.js, Shiny, Java, Numpy etc. is also highly desirable.
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS

? Create and apply models, and visualizations for News and Social Media
analysis; such as, predictive analytics, narrative modeling, trending, etc. ?
Develop solutions for back-end and front-end data enrichment, such as
statistical topic, quote, and event extraction ? Retrieve, process and prepare
a rich data variety of data sources such as social media, news, etc. ? Analyze
and model structured data and implement algorithms to support analysis using
advanced statistical and mathematical methods from statistics, machine
learning, data mining, econometrics, and operations research ? Perform
statistical Natural Language Processing to mine unstructured data, using
methods such as document clustering, topic analysis, named entity recognition,
document classification, and sentiment analysis ? Utilize a diverse array of
technologies and tools as needed, to deliver insights, such as R, SAS, Python,
Spark, Hadoop etc. ? Drive client engagements focused on Big Data and advanced
business analytics, in diverse domains such as risk management, product
development, marketing research, supply chain, public policy; communicate
results and educate others through reports and presentations ? Perform
exploratory data analysis, generate and test working hypotheses, and uncover
interesting trends and relationships ? Master?s degree with a minimum of two
years experience, or PhD in Computer Science, Statistics, Mathematics,
Engineering, Econometrics, or related fields ? Strong mathematical background
with strong knowledge in at least one of the following fields: statistics, data
mining, machine learning, statistics, operations research, econometrics,
natural language processing, and/or information retrieval ? Deep experience in
extracting, cleaning, preparing and modeling data ? Experience with
command-line scripting, data structures, and algorithms; ability to work in a
Linux environment ? Proficiency in analysis (e.g. R, SAS, Matlab) packages ?
Proficiency in programming languages (e.g. Python, Ruby, Java, Scala)
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

Work Environment ? Working conditions as normal for an office environment ?
Requires periods of non-traditional hours including consecutive nights or
weekends when necessary ? May require ability to lift/and or move objects or
packages of up to 25 lbs
                                         
[Apply Now]    [Refer a Friend]

  *  
  *  
  *  

  * Home
  * About Us
  * Solutions
  * Careers
  * News
  * Contact Us

?2015 SOS International, LLC. All rights reserved.

