Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist

Data Scientist

Req No 
    2016-1170

Category 
    Marketing/Analytics

Type 
    Regular Full-Time

Location 
    US-MO-Kansas City

More information about this job:

Overview:

Spring Venture Group is looking for a talented, passionate, and curious Data
Scientist to help investigate our data and look for alternative ways to solve
some of our complex business problems. Some projects we?re currently tackling
include: maximizing profit with our lead buys through the usage of machine
learning and optimization modeling, predictive churn modeling to measure
customer flight risk, talent acquisition modeling, and the use of artificial
intelligence and natural language processing to effectively communicate with
prospects and current policy holders.

 

We are looking for a mixture between a statistician, machine learning expert
and engineer: someone who has passion for building and improving internal
processes informed by data. The ideal candidate understands human behavior and
knows what to look for in the data, and should have a solid foundation of the
statistics behind standard statistical design methods such as A/B testing and
multivariate testing.

 

This role has the potential for massive impact on Spring Venture Group?s growth
trajectory. If you have a background in statistics, mathematics, or analytics
and are interested in applying it to grow Spring Venture Group, we want to hear
from you!

 

Responsibilities:

  * Develop strategies to extract, resolve, and unify information of various
    types from numerous disparate data sources
  * Develop new technologies and machine learning process to support company
    initiatives
  * Provide detailed reporting on working projects
  * Provide guidance and input on new and innovative ways to improve current
    data science stack

Qualifications:

  * Proficiency in SQL and Python, with an emphasis on using pandas and
    scikit-learn libraries
  * High degree of proficiency and competency with machine learning
    methodologies and concepts
  * An advanced understanding of business problem solving
  * Very familiar with database design and implementation
  * Operationally focused ? understands what metrics to track and how to use
    them to identify and diagnose areas for optimization

Spring Venture Group is an Equal Opportunity Employer.

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed

Socialize this job opportunity to a friend, colleague, or family member:
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

