Skip to Main Content
UPenn Logo

Careers@Penn

Toggle navigation

  • Home
  • Search Jobs
  • Create Account
  • Log In
  • Help

  • Why Penn
  • Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action
  • Faculty Positions
  • Salary Information
  • Sign up for Email Job Alerts

STATISTICAL PROGRAMMER

Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary
documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening.
To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button.

If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the
Bookmark link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your
records, click on the Print Preview link.

Bookmark this Posting | Print Preview | Apply for this Job

Posting Details

Posting Details

  Reference    40-24415
    Number
  Posted Job   STATISTICAL PROGRAMMER
    Title
 School Name   Perelman School of Medicine
     Org       DM-General Internal Medicine
Posted to the  11/18/2016
     Web
 Posted Job/   028
 Salary Grade
  Employment   Exempt
     Type
    Hours      40.00
Position Type  Full Time
   Position    8:30 - 5:00
   Schedule
    Months     12
   Position    Contingent Upon Funding
    Length
 Position End
     Date
               The University of Pennsylvania, the largest private employer in
               Philadelphia, is a world-renowned leader in education, research,
               and innovation. This historic, Ivy League school consistently
               ranks among the top 10 universities in the annual U.S. News &
               World Report survey. Penn has 12 highly-regarded schools that
               provide opportunities for undergraduate, graduate and continuing
               education, all influenced by Penn’s distinctive
               interdisciplinary approach to scholarship and learning.

               Penn offers a unique working environment within the city of
               Philadelphia. The University is situated on a beautiful urban
  University   campus, with easy access to a range of educational, cultural,
   Overview    and recreational activities. With its historical significance
               and landmarks, lively cultural offerings, and wide variety of
               atmospheres, Philadelphia is the perfect place to call home for
               work and play.

               The University offers a competitive benefits package that
               includes excellent healthcare and tuition benefits for employees
               and their families, generous retirement benefits, a wide variety
               of professional development opportunities, supportive work and
               family benefits, a wealth of health and wellness programs and
               resources, and much more.

               The Biostatistician position will support clinical and health
               policy-related research projects conducted by investigators at
               Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy, Department of
               Medicine and the Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics.
               The Biostatistician will use SAS, Stata, R, and other
               programming skills to generate analytical datasets from a wide
               variety of health care data sources including administrative
               claims, electronic medical record data, statewide health
               registry data, as well as ‘non-traditional’ data sources such as
               social media. Using our large array of statistical and analytic
    Duties     programming tools, the biostatistician will write code that
               generates analytical variables and produces standardized outcome
               measures via multivariable analysis. Critical tasks include
               dataset linkages, database queries, data cleaning, and
               implementation exploratory and specialized statistical analyses
               such as hierarchical linear models, missing data imputation,
               propensity score analyses, and bootstrap simulations. Strong
               teamwork and collaboration skills are needed to support multiple
               and concurrent projects.

               Position is contingent on continued funding.

               A Master’s Degree in mathematics, statistics, healthcare
               management, economics, epidemiology, public health, health
               services research, or data science with a minimum of 3 years of
               related experience. Experience in conducting complex data
               analyses in clinical medicine, public health, epidemiology,
               health services research, or health economics is required.
Qualifications Strong statistical programming skills in SAS, Stata, and/or R
               are required, and additional experience in using other data
               management programming languages such as SQL, Python, Java,
               Perl, Visual Basic, or C++, and is
               strongly preferred. Prior work experience in an academic or
               other scientific research setting in health care is preferred.

               Penn adheres to a policy that prohibits discrimination on the
 Affirmative   basis of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity,
    Action     religion, creed, national or ethnic origin, citizenship status,
  Statement    age, disability, veteran status, or any other legally protected
               class.

   Special     Background check required after a conditional job offer is made.
 Requirements  Consideration of the background check will be tailored to the
               requirements of the job.
  Quick Link   http://jobs.hr.upenn.edu/postings/23872

Posting Supplemental Questions

Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*).

 1. * How did you hear about this employment opportunity?
      □ Jobs@Penn
      □ Contacted by a Penn Recruiter
      □ Referred by a Penn Employee
      □ Referred by a friend or family member
      □ Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (HERC)
      □ Inside Higher Ed
      □ Indeed.com
      □ Other Internet Advertisement
      □ Linkedin
      □ Twitter
      □ Other Social Media Site
      □ Professional Affiliation/Trade Website
      □ Diversity Association/Publication Website
      □ Heard about it at a conference or career fair
      □ Apple One
      □ Recruitment and/or staffing agency
 2. * What is your highest level of education completed?
      □ Less than high school education
      □ High School Diploma or GED
      □ Vocational or Technical School
      □ Associate's Degree or Two Year College
      □ Bachelor's Degree
      □ Master's Degree
      □ PHD/MD/JD or equivalent doctoral degree
 3. * How many years of experience do you have related to this position?
      □ 0 to 1 Year
      □ 1 to 2 Years
      □ 2 to 3 Years
      □ 3 to 5 Years
      □ 5 to 7 Years
      □ 7 to 10 Years
      □ Over 10 Years
 4. * Do you have experience in conducting complex data analyses in clinical
    medicine, public health, epidemiology, health services research, or health
    economics?
      □ Yes
      □ No
 5. * Do you have strong statistical programming skills in SAS, Stata, and/or
    R?
      □ Yes
      □ No
 6. * Do you have experience in using other data management programming
    languages such as SQL, Python, Java, Perl, Visual Basic, or C++?
      □ Yes
      □ No
 7. * Do you have prior work experience in an academic or other scientific
    research setting in health care?
      □ Yes
      □ No

Applicant Documents

Required Documents

 1. Resume

Optional Documents

 1. Cover Letter

3401 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-6228 | (215) 898-7287

                                                       recruitment@hr.upenn.edu

