[84963f7c-5]

Data Scientist

Redwood City, CA
Data Science
Full-time
Apply for this job

Reputation.com is the leader in Online Reputation Management, and our mission
is to sort through the vast amounts of information about our customers
represented in surveys, reviews, and other sources and derive actionable
insights and tangible business results for our customers.
 
As a Data Scientist you will be at the center of this mission. We want you to
develop the best algorithms to extract insights from that corpus of customer
feedback, build the best models to measure the value of those insights, and
lead the way in creating data products out of these model

Responsibilities

      + You will be expected to own one or more of our core models and take it
        end-to-end from understanding business needs, to problem formulation,
        to modeling, prototyping, and into production.
      + You should be comfortable taking feedback from everyone ? Product
        Mangers, Engineers, customers, the CEO, etc. ? to help understand
        business objectives and constraints and deliver the most powerful
        models and data products, as well as build and maintain a roadmap
        beyond v1.

Requirements

      + Demonstrated ability to solve problems using data
      + Advanced degree in Data Science, Analytics, Operations Research,
        Statistics or a related field with 3+ years of industry experience
      + A strong background in machine learning, stochastic modeling, and
        predictive analytics, and experience building data products with these
        techniques. Experience with NLP/text analytics are a plus
      + Strong communication skills. You are able to explain models intuitively
        to engineers, PMs, executives, and clients.
      + Proficiency in Python, R, or similar and with related machine learning
        packages
      + Proficient with SQL.
      + Data visualization experience a plus.
      + Strong programming skills and/or experience or a strong interest in
        cluster computing framework such as Apache Spark are a plus

We are an equal opportunity employer and value diversity at our company. We do
not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin,
gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, veteran status, or disability
status.

About Reputation.com

Ninety percent of buyers say online reviews influence their purchasing
decisions.  A difference of one ?star? in a rating leads to a 9 percent
difference in revenue. Yet companies struggle to ensure that their reviews and
ratings reflect actual customer satisfaction.

CMOs find themselves at the mercy of algorithms they don?t control on Google,
Facebook and thousands of specialty sites ? where no amount of marketing spend
can offset the negative impact of a weak online reputation.

We deliver the category-leading Online Reputation Management (ORM) platform for
large, multi-location enterprises. Our intelligent platform helps them:

* Monitor review sites and social media
* Generate more representative star ratings and reviews
* Make operational changes to improve customer experience
* Maximize customer retention and revenue

Reputation.com is a World Economic Forum Global Growth Company and is funded by
the same top-tier venture capital firms that backed Google, Skype, Intuit and
Microsoft.

Apply for this job

Reputation.com Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
