[d69bde0a-7]

Data scientist

Berkeley
Data Science
Full-time
Apply for this job

Pi is an analytics company focused on transforming Business Intelligence (BI)
with modern machine learning tools. With our wide and diverse client base, we
are moving traditional, service-lead BI into a productised data-driven toolset,
helping our clients seamlessly integrate their data sources into one platform.
Automation and machine learning are being utilised not just to replace manual
data munging, ETL and report writing but also to offer new insights and provide
more power to our analyst and business manager clients.

We are seeking candidates for the role of data scientist to form part of Pi’s
new California office. As an early member of this team, you will have a major
impact on shaping our data science platform and responsibility for developing
novel machine learning solutions. The successful candidate will have both a
strong understanding of data science fundamentals and the creativity to apply
this to a diverse range of problems.

The California office is Pi’s data science R&D centre, responsible for
innovating, prototyping and developing new data products that will then become
part of the Pi toolset. You will work with development teams in London and
Madrid to move these tools to production for use by Pi’s internal analysts or
by external clients directly. Close communication among teams is essential to
hone specifications and deliver products on a deadline. Part of the role also
involves knowledge sharing with and training of the end user.

Key responsibilities

      □ Develop new machine learning products to expand Pi’s data science
        capabilities
      □ Work with clients to produce detailed product specifications,
        responding pro-actively to client needs
      □ Find creative ways to generate value from existing data
      □ Conduct research into new technologies, algorithms and techniques
      □ Lead the development of a product from prototype through to production
      □ Coordinate with other members of the Pi development team worldwide

Required qualifications

      □ Advanced level degree or equivalent experience relevant to data science
      □ Proven industry experience developing machine learning solutions
      □ Proficiency in relevant languages and technologies (Python, Scala, SQL,
        Spark, …)
      □ Experience of relevant machine learning tools (Scikit-learn, MLlib,
        Tensorflow, …)
      □ Knowledge of data structures, algorithms and all key computer science
        fundamentals
      □ Expertise in basic and advanced machine learning techniques
      □ Strong analytical skills and aptitude for problem solving
      □ Great verbal and written skills
      □ Able to work to deadlines and cope with fast changing situations
      □ Strong attention to detail
      □ Able to work independently and within a team

Preferred qualifications

      □ PhD in machine learning / numerical discipline
      □ 2+ years relevant industry experience
      □ Experience of distributed computing using big data technologies (Spark,
        Hadoop stack, NoSQL, …)
      □ Experience of deep learning
      □ Teaching experience in technical subjects

Benefits

      □ Valued member of a fast-growing, employee-focused company
      □ Develop your skills and make important contributions from day one
      □ Competitive salary, healthcare and employee benefits
      □ Company allowance for personal development and training

We are unfortunately unable to sponsor work visas at this time.

Apply for this job

Pi Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
