Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist

Data Scientist

Location 
    US-DC Metro Area

More information about this job

About Excella

Excella is a technology consulting firm serving commercial, non-profit, and
federal clients in the Washington, DC area. Excella builds innovative custom
software solutions with a strong focus on Agile engineering practices. We
believe that great work leads to great things –- for our clients and our
employees. We are growing fast and need passionate, innovative people who love
working with technology and are ready to make an impact.

Overview

The Data Scientist is responsible for using advanced statistical, algorithmic,
machine learning, mining and visualization techniques to help advance and
complete client projects. The Data Scientist must also be able to communicate
complex quantitative analyses in a clear, precise, and actionable manner to
management and executive level audiences.

 

Responsibilities

  • Working directly with client stakeholders to understand and define analysis
    objectives and then translate these into actionable results.
  • Obtaining data from multiple, disparate data sources including structured,
    semi-structured and unstructured data.
  • Using machine learning and data mining technique to understand the patterns
    in large volumes of data, identify relationships detect data anomalies, and
    classify data sets.
  • Working with data integration developers to assess data quality and define
    data processing business rules for cleansing, aggregation, enhancement etc.
    support analysis and predictive modelling activities.
  • Designing and building algorithms and predictive models using techniques
    such as linear and logistic regression, support vector machines, ensemble
    models (random forest and/or gradient boosted trees), neural networks, and
    clustering techniques.
  • Deploying predictive models and integrating them into business processes
    and applications.
  • Validating and optimizing model performance upon deployment and tracking
    over time as necessary.
  • Presenting complex analysis results tailored to different audiences (e.g.
    technical, manager, executive) in a highly consumable and actionable form
    including the use of data visualizations.

Qualifications

Qualifications (Technical)

 

  • 3+ years in a hands on role performing advanced predictive analytics using
    tools like Python, R, or SAS.
  • 3+ years writing simple to complex SQL queries to obtain data from multiple
    source systems.
  • 3+ years using data mining methods, such as clustering and anomaly
    detection, to understand data patterns and select appropriate predictive
    techniques.
  • Experience with applied machine learning (tree-based methods, ensemble
    methods, neural networks/deep learning)
  • Proficient understanding of relational (e.g. Oracle, SQL Server,
    PostgreSQL) and Big Data distributed structures (Hadoop/Spark) in order to
    source data effectively.
  • Experience using natural language processing techniques preferred.
  • Experience using advanced analytics techniques for fraud detection and
    prevention preferred.
  • Experience working with social media data sources (e.g. Twitter, Facebook)
    preferred.

 

Qualifications (Non-Technical)

 

  • Excellent communication skills to be able to interact directly with
    non-technical client stakeholders and act in a business-to-technical
    translation role.
  • Experience working in an onsite client technical consulting environment
    preferred.
  • Experience working within the Agile Scrum Framework.
  • Self-motivated and self-managing.
  • Proficient in creating reasonable and accurate time estimates for assigned
    tasks.

Options

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs
