
Create a Profile|Log In
   Close
 Yes No
 
Show Details
At least one job must be selected in order to apply. Apply Now
Or apply with these other sources

Apply with LinkedIn

Terms of use


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Refer Job: Send to a Friend

  * Share this on Facebook
  * Share this on LinkedIn

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Add Add to Saved Jobs
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Back

Data Scientist (Architect Level)


222 W Adams St, 11th Floor
Chicago, Illinois, 60606
United States

West Monroe isn?t a start-up consulting firm, but we act like one.

From day one, our people have the opportunity to make a definitive personal
impact for their clients and their careers. What does this mean? It means we
seek out the best of the best, and then we challenge them to make us better.

If you are looking to be a ?behind the scenes? technologist, this isn?t the
place for you. We celebrate driven professionals who thrive in a collaborative
environment. Our consultants work on front lines ? partnering with clients to
deliver game changing solutions in the most dynamic industries. Sound
interesting?  Then West Monroe Partners just might be the place for you.

Think you?re up to the challenge?

West Monroe Partners is seeking a Data Scientist to join and help build our
emerging Predictive Analytics practice in the Chicago office. We?re looking for
you to be a thought-leader building solutions for clients from the ground up on
a daily basis.  You will be engaging in developing and marketing analytics
platforms-as-as-service solutions and collaborating with our client analytics
SMEs and implementing predictive models in a variety of industries.

Qualifications:

?         MS or Bachelor with equivalent experience required in related
Mathematics, Statistics, Econometrics, or similar quantitative degree. PhD a
plus

?         A minimum of 5+ years of experience working in a quantitative
analysis/data analytics, managing and/or coaching one or more analysts

?         Experience working with relational databases, such as SQL

?         Strong communication skills to be able to work with clients and
present to C-level executives.

?         Solid project management methodology background, including schedule,
scope, issue and risk management experience, change management, strategic
planning and analysis

?         Present experience or proficiency with data related projects

?         Proficient analytical, problem solving and quality delivery
experience, preferable 3-5 projects and programs with Fortune 200.

?         Ability to travel minimum 50%.

 

Technical Requirements

?         Proven expertise with advanced analytics and data mining tools and
programming languages such as SAS, IBM/SPSS, R, Python, and SQL

?         Familiarity with BI/data visualization tools such as Tableau and
Qlikview

?         Hands-on experience with multivariate analytic techniques such as
linear and logistic regression, decision tree, cluster and factor analysis,
time-series forecasting methods, SVM models, and neural nets.

?         NoSQL a plus: HBase, Cassandra, Accumulo, Mongo, Neo4j, etc.

?         Experience with ETL, data warehouse and reporting a plus

?         Experience with MapReduce: Hadoop, Hive, PIG, Mahout, etc. is a plus

Level responsibilities:

Practice development

  * Engage in developing and marketing analytics platforms-as-a-service
    solutions
  * Collaborate with top leadership within the various practices to develop
    applicable client projects
  * Contribute to the development/enhancement of WMP?s advanced analytics
    methodologies, best practices, and approaches to client delivery.
  * Contribute to growth of knowledge in service line through training and KTS
    sessions
  * Complete case studies for all engagements
  * Develop talented individuals who are delivering client work
  * Attract talent to continue to build the practice from top tier analytics
    firms and or schools

Client delivery

  * Oversee advanced analytics work for quality assurance
  * Be a thought-leader in providing solutions to clients on a daily basis
  * Able to engage with client analytics SMEs to collaborate
  * Lead engagements or the analytics portion of engagements by communicating
    and reporting project status to key client stakeholders, including budget,
    risks, issues, etc.
  * Make decisions regarding aspects of project, including tools, approach and
    methodology
  * Define detailed responsibilities, work tasks and targets for each team
    member according to the technical work plan
  * Manage multiple projects simultaneously
  * Assess stakeholder interests and plan and execute strategies to address
    their needs while quickly responding to client requests for immediate
    issues and driving projects to completion.

Business Development (Desired)

  * Drive new business with existing clients by identifying and communicating
    potential opportunities to account manager
  * Understand client business needs and requirements and help turn those goals
    into concrete projects and detailed proposals
  * Create work plans, pricing estimates, and risk assessments for prospects
  * Actively build a professional network and affiliate network in the local
    community

So, if you?re looking for an opportunity to flex your technical muscles in a
high-energy, team-oriented environment where you own your career, we?d love to
hear from you.

 

Think you?ve got what it takes?  Join our team and make us better.

 

West Monroe Partners is an Equal Employment Opportunity Employer -
We believe in treating each employee and applicant for employment fairly and
with dignity. We base our employment decisions on merit, experience, and
potential, without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity, marital status, age, religion, disability,
veteran status, or any other characteristic prohibited by federal, state or
local law.

 

#LI-AS1

 Send to a Friend  Close
 [spinner]  Please wait...
 
 Email this Job Ad to your friend(s) by adding their email address(es) along
 with your details to the field below:

 *Separate each recipient email address with a comma.

 Recipient email address(es):
 [                    ] *

 Your First Name:
 [                    ] *

 Your Last Name:
 [                    ] *

 Select which language the email should be sent in.

 Language: [English (US)]

 Send
 
   Close
 
 This Job Opening is already listed as one of your Interests. You cannot add
 the same Job Opening to your list of Interests more than one time.

 To see your list of Interests, navigate to the Application Status tab within
 My Profile
                                                                       [Close]

 
 Account Warning  Close
 [icon_alert]
 Log In Cancel OK
 

