 
[cropped]
 
 
 
Privacy Policy
Job Openings

Data Scientist

Informatics – Somerville, Massachusetts
Apply for this Job
Department Informatics
Employment Type Full-Time
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Data Scientist at Finch Therapeutics

About Finch Therapeutics:

Finch Therapeutics is unlocking the therapeutic potential of the microbiome via
a human-first drug discovery platform. We support clinical studies that
intentionally manipulate the microbiome to investigate causality in diseases
that are otherwise poorly understood. Using high-throughput molecular data from
clinical studies and ex-vivo experiments, we identify specific strains that
drive clinical phenotypes and responses to microbial therapies. Our team values
transparency, integrity, humility, and collaboration, and we intend to have fun
while maximizing our ability to make an impact on patients’ lives. We are
searching for passionate teammates eager to support this mission.

 Job Description:

As a member of our Data Science team, you be will be reporting to the Director
of Data Science, Sonia Timberlake. Your mission will be to develop tools and
intuition to predict successful microbial therapies and design experiments,
both computational and wetlab, that extract mechanistic understanding from
high-throughput microbial data. You will further our microbial drug development
platform by mining microbial datasets, developing our machine learning
platform, and working closely with both bench scientists and clinicians to
brainstorm and test functional hypotheses about microbial community disease. 

Responsibilities will include but are not limited to:

  • Propose new biological hypotheses for potential microbial drivers and
    therapies based on literature and proprietary data, develop and perform
    statistical tests of these hypotheses
  • Use machine learning effectively and develop new analysis strategies for
    large biological datasets (eg 16S, metagenomics)
  • Work closely with bench scientists to design and analyze microbial function
    experiments
  • Work with clinicians to help design and analyze clinical trials
    (particularly of microbial therapeutics)
  • Communicate analysis results with a variety of audiences including
    clinicians, bench scientists, industry executives, and academic
    researchers, especially with effective graphical output.
  • Work effectively as part of a multifunctional team in support of a
    commercially viable therapeutics discovery platform

 Qualifications:

  • PhD in computational biology or computer engineering
  • Strong understanding of machine learning and/or mathematics, particularly
    statistics
  • Proven ability to design and code new algorithms
  • Experience testing biological hypotheses using large datasets
  • Facility with big data visualization, especially with R or python
    matplotlib
  • Ability to work independently
  • Eager to work collaboratively in a team and to both give and receive
    feedback to support professional development for self and others

  •  Ability to perform complex analyses in a time sensitive fashion
  • Strong organizational and communications skills
  • Passion, humility, and excitement for doing whatever it takes to drive
    research forward
  • Must be legally eligible for work in the United States

 Additional Desired Skills & Experience (not required)

  • Familiarity with AWS, in particular Amazon EC2
  • Experience with microbial ecology or evolution, genomics, GWAS
  • Experience with immunology or gastroenterology
  • Experience with machine learning in biological datasets.
  • Previous experience developing database architecture

 At Finch Therapeutics, you can expect to engage deeply in the core of our
mission. You will grow with a dynamic, rapidly expanding organization, and have
an opportunity to contribute to cutting edge research that will truly impact
patients’ lives. We offer a competitive starting salary, plus healthcare and
other benefits. As we grow, there will be opportunities for promotion and
professional development.

Application Instructions:

We are interviewing for this position already, however, the start date for this
position is flexible. To apply, please go to http://finchtherapeutics.com/
join-finch/, then follow the link for Data Scientist to submit your cover
letter and resume. Promising candidates will be contacted to further evaluate
their fit for this role and our organization.

Apply for this Job

Apply for this Position

*Required
First Name
[                    ]
Last Name
[                    ]
Email
[                    ]
Phone
[                    ]
Cover Letter
No file selected
Resume
No file selected
Date Available
[                    ]
LinkedIn Profile URL
[                    ]
Submit Application
Thank You
Your application was submitted successfully.
Apply for this Job
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Link to this job
[https://finch.bamboo]
 
 
 

  • Location
    Somerville, Massachusetts
  • Department
    Informatics
  • Employment Type
    Full-Time
  • Powered by  

Privacy Policy
Powered by  
