[ebf1ff8f-5]

Machine Learning Engineer

Redwood City
Engineering
Full-time
Apply for this job

Our consumption of health data is growing at an exponential rate -- as a
machine learning engineer, you'll make sense of it all. We ingest clinical data
(eg: medical history, allergies, test results) from hospitals and labs, and
wellness data (eg: physical activity, sleep, nutrition) from devices and apps.
Collectively, these data sets create a more detailed understanding of an
individuals health than anything else today. The data recorded from these
sources are both continuous and discrete.

You?ll be responsible for building our deep normalization pipeline, creating
medical models, and developing structured APIs with the engineers.

This position is for someone who has built at least one large classification
system, dabbled with medical data sets, is well versed with NLP and Machine
Learning, and is comfortable coding in languages such as Scala, Java, and
Python. You've likely built your own parsers when the open source NLP parsers
couldn't do the job and you've built machine learning pipelines.

This position is for someone who can hit the ground running and is excited to
take our team to the next level. We're looking for people who want to solve
hard problems and find a mission they really believe in.

You will

      + Drive the machine regression / classification and normalization
        pipeline
      + Develop the NLP required to clean noisy unstructured data
      + Create machine learning models in situations where the data is sparse
        and high-dimensional
      + Improve the models ten times before an expert can label the data
      + Develop normalization algorithms
      + Build algorithms required to gain deeper insights on the clinical data
        from thousands of hospitals

We really like people who

      + Care deeply about the problems we're trying to solve
      + Own problems end-to-end in a very ownership driven culture
      + Are product focused. Solving the underlying product problem is more
        important than writing a lot of code
      + Have a good sense of humor
      + Have a positive attitude, willingness to learn, and desire for
        self-improvement

At Human API, we are opening up the world of health data for the next
generation of healthcare applications.

We?ve built the first real-time network for health data, making health data
accessible and actionable for companies building valuable applications and
experiences with it. By enabling health data liquidity, we are powering a more
effective, personal and responsive healthcare system.

Human API is powering over 10,000 applications in 40 countries, including
Johnson & Johnson, Kaiser Permanente, and AXA. The company is backed by
Andreessen Horowitz and BlueRun Ventures.

We're looking for independent thinkers who care deeply about the problems we're
trying to solve. At Human API, we believe that a diverse variety of people
makes us better, and so we welcome people of all backgrounds.

Want to build the future of health data with us? Get in touch.

Apply for this job

Human API Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
