Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Senior Scientist

Senior Scientist

HNTB Job Title 
    Sr Scientist/Team Leader

Job Location 
    US-GA-Atlanta

Position Type 
    Regular Full-Time

Category 
    Environmental Services

Job ID 
    0117-15154

More information about this job

For more than a century, HNTB has helped deliver infrastructure solutions that
best meet the unique needs of our clients.  With client relationships spanning
decades, we understand infrastructure life cycles and have the perspective to
solve technical challenges with clarity and imagination.  We are far more than
a design firm.  We see and help address far-reaching issues of financing,
legislation, design, construction, community outreach and ongoing operations. 
As employee-owners committed to the highest levels of performance, we enable
clients to achieve their goals and inspiring visions.
 
At HNTB, we?re encouraged to go beyond discovering mere solutions that will
impact our very landscape.  We are encouraged to ask, ?What if??  Our HNTB
family fosters an inventive and resourceful commitment to finding unique
answers to complex problems.  We believe that the act of wondering sparks
creativity.  We will work to foster your creativity, career and personal
growth.  Come join HNTB and unleash your spark of imagination.
 
For you, ?together? can mean the chance to put together an exciting career. At
HNTB ?together? also means collaborating across geographies and disciplines
within the firm.  And ?together? means that we are partners with our clients.
Our goals are linked, and their success is our success. ?Together? means that
we are engaged in the communities we serve ? we live there ? and are committed
to their growth and development.

Overview

HNTB is a multidisciplinary firm known and respected for our work in
transportation, bridges, aviation, architecture, urban design and planning,
environmental planning, water resources and construction services. We serve our
clients with integrity, technical excellence and a commitment to performance ?
providing quality work, on time, on budget and to the client?s satisfaction.

At HNTB, we?re committed to providing an environment where our people can be
successful, and where they can create infrastructure that exceeds the
expectations of our clients and the communities they serve. Through exceptional
service and a shared vision, we create public infrastructure that unites,
enriches and inspires.


HNTB Corporation?s Environmental Planning Practice currently has a need for a 
Senior Scientist/Ecologist in our Atlanta, Georgia office. The candidate will
work with a team of planners and scientists under supervision to help perform
environmental studies and compliance activities for a wide range of assignments
associated with large, complex transportation, municipal and rail/transit
projects.  Knowledge of the NEPA process and associated environmental
regulations and requirements is required.  A good grasp of technology and
ability to adapt and work quickly in a fast paced environment is highly
preferred.

Responsibilities

  * Ability to conduct ecological studies, organization of work plans and
    leading field crews for specialized field assessments including but not
    limited to wetland and stream delineations, endangered species/habitat
    assessments and surveys, plant identification/tree surveys, and land use
    studies throughout the state of Georgia.

  * Preparation of technical documentation for inclusion in environmental
    documents; including Categorical Exclusions, Environmental Assessments,
    Environmental Impact Statements and other technical reports as needed to
    assess impacts.
  * Organization of work plans and leading field crews for specialized field
    assessments including but not limited to wetland and stream delineations,
    endangered species/habitat assessments and surveys, plant identification/
    tree surveys, and land use studies throughout the state of Georgia.
  * Management of data collection, including entering and analyzing field data.
  * Preparation of Section 404 permits under the Clean Water Act.  Permits
    may include Individual, Nationwide, or Regional. 
  * Preparation of Georgia EPD Stream Buffer Variance applications.
  * Strong analytical and technical report writing skills.
  * Ability to conduct thorough internal and external technical report reviews
    with a focus on attention to detail.
  * Ability to formulate and conduct technical planning studies in a timely and
    efficient manner and present results in concise, well-written documents.
  * Computer skills with windows based programs such as Word, Excel, Access,
    Power Point, Outlook as well as ArcGIS.  Experience with Trimble GPS units
    and data processing software is preferred.
  * Organizational/time management skills.
  * Understanding of detailed ecology/biology concepts.
  * Excellent communication skills and the ability to work well with others
    from an array of different fields.

Basic Qualifications

 

  * Bachelors degree in an environmental field of study (Environmental Science,
    Biology, Ecology, Fisheries, Wildlife or related field
  * At least 5 years of related experience in the ecological field studies and
    the preparation of environmental documents including Ecology and NEPA. or
    With a Masters Degree 3 years of related experience.
  * The ideal candidate would have knowledge of the Georgia Department of
    Transportation (GDOT) Environmental Procedures Manual for conducting and
    completing quality environmental documents.  Must be dependable and detail
    oriented, and able to identify, assess and solve problems in the field and
    work place. 

 

 

The HNTB Companies are an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate
on the basis of age, race, gender, religion, color, sex, national origin,
marital status, genetic information, sexual orientation, pregnancy status,
physical or mental disability, veteran status or other status protected by law.
In compliance with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, we will hire
only U.S. citizens and aliens lawfully authorized to work in the United States
(if the position is or will be one which is subject to U.S. law). We will
provide reasonable accommodation for qualified individual with a disability
where appropriate.

 

*LI-AO



HNTB Corporation is an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer,
Minority/Female/Disabled/Veteran. 

The HNTB Companies are an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate
on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, sex, national origin, age,
disability, pregnancy status, sexual orientation, gender identity, veteran
status, marital status, genetic information, citizenship status, or other
status protected by law.  In compliance with the Immigration Reform and Control
Act of 1986, we will hire only U.S. citizens and aliens lawfully authorized to
work in the United States (if the position is or will be one which is subject
to U.S. law). We will provide reasonable accommodation for qualified individual
with a disability where appropriate.

 

?EEO is the Law? Poster

?EEO is the Law? Poster Supplement

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
#Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

