Skip to content
Micron Logo

  • Jobs at Micron
  • Featured Jobs
      □ Accounting and Finance Jobs
      □ College and University Graduate Jobs
      □ Engineering Jobs
      □ Internship Opportunities
      □ Manufacturing/Production Operations Jobs
      □ Business, Administrative, Legal and Human Resources Jobs
      □ Procurement and Supply Chain Jobs
      □ Research and Development Jobs
      □ Sales and Marketing Jobs
      □ Solid State Drive Jobs
      □ Information Technology
      □ View All Jobs
  • Location
      □ Jobs in the United States
      □ Jobs in Singapore
      □ Jobs in China
      □ Jobs in Malaysia
  • Not finding a job?
      □ Join Our Talent Community
      □ View All Jobs
  • Micron Global
      □ English
      □ Simplified Chinese
      □ Malay

Search by Keyword [                    ] [Search Jobs]
Email similar jobs to me

Please enable JavaScript to subscribe.

[                    ] [Subscribe] 
Share this Job

Data Science Intern Job

Apply now »

  • Apply now Apply now
        Email [                    ] [Start]
      □ Please wait...
        Loading

Date: Dec 15, 2016

Location: manassas, VA, US

Company: Micron

Req Id: 67964 

Data Science Intern Job Description

As a Data Science Engineer Intern at Micron Technology Inc., you will research
and employ techniques and theories drawn from areas of mathematics, statistics,
and information technology to uncover patterns in data from which predictive
models, actionable insights, and solutions can be developed. This will involve
one or more of the following methods or subjects: signal processing,
probability models, machine learning, statistical learning, computer
programming, data engineering, pattern recognition and learning, visualization,
uncertainty modeling, Big Data, and high performance computing. You will
interact with Data Scientists and engineering teams to identify questions and
issues for data analysis projects. In this position, you will help develop and
code software programs, algorithms and/or automated processes to cleanse,
integrate and evaluate large datasets from multiple disparate sources.

 

Qualifications

  • Desire to work on data analysis projects that will improve yield, quality,
    reduce costs and cycle time, and/or optimize business processes.
  • Ability to extract data from different databases via SQL and other query
    languages and applying data cleansing, outlier identification, and missing
    data techniques.
  • Ability to work with small, big, structured, semi-structured, and
    unstructured data.
  • Experience with or desire to learn:
      □ R, JMP, and/or other statistical software including scripting
        capability for automating analyses,
      □ Machine learning and other advanced analytical methods,
      □ Hadoop and/or Teradata, and
      □ Python, HIVE, PIG, Spark, etc.

 

Education Requirements:

A B.Sc. degree in statistics, physics, computer science, engineering, applied
mathematics, etc. with the intentions of completing a MS or Ph.D. in one of
these fields.

 

We recruit, hire, train, promote, discipline and provide other conditions of
employment without regard to a person's race, color, religion, sex, age,
national origin, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and
expression, pregnancy, veteran’s status, or other classifications protected
under law.  This includes providing reasonable accommodation for team members'
disabilities or religious beliefs and practices.
 
Each manager, supervisor and team member is responsible for carrying out this
policy. The EEO Administrator in Human Resources is responsible for
administration of this policy. The administrator will monitor compliance and is
available to answer any questions on EEO matters.
 
To request assistance with the application process, please contact Micron’s
Human Resources Department at 1-800-336-8918 (or 208-368-4748).
 
Keywords: manassas || Virginia (US-VA) || United States (US) || Frontend
Manufacturing || College || Internship || Engineering || Not Applicable ||

 


Nearest Major Market: Washington DC
Job Segment: Database, Intern, Engineer, Business Intelligence, Data Warehouse,
Technology, Entry Level, Engineering

Apply now »

  • Apply now Apply now
        Email [                    ] [Start]
      □ Please wait...
        Loading

Find similar jobs:
Internship Opportunities, Engineering Jobs, Engineering, College and University
Graduate Jobs, College and University Graduate
Jobs at Micron micron.com Top Job Searches View All Jobs socialmatcher Manage/
Edit Your Profile Privacy Policy

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY (EEO) STATEMENT

We recruit, hire, train, promote, discipline and provide other conditions of
employment without regard to a person’s to race, religion, color, sex, national
origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression,
pregnancy, veteran's status, ancestry, medical condition (including genetic
characteristics), and marital status or other classifications under the law.
This includes providing reasonable accommodation for team members’ disabilities
or religious beliefs and practices.

Each manager, supervisor and team member is responsible for carrying out this
policy. The Company’s EEO Administrator in the Boise, Idaho Employee Relations
department is responsible for administration of this policy. The administrator
will monitor compliance and is available to answer any questions on EEO
matters.

To request assistance with the application process, please contact Micron's
Human Resources Department at 1-800-336-8918 (or 208-368-4748) or submit Job
Information Request Form.

© Micron Technology, Inc. All Rights Reserved

