[casetext-l]

Data Scientist/Machine Learning Engineer

San Francisco, CA
Data
Full-time
Apply for this job

Machine learning is at the core of Casetext's mission to make the law free and
understandable and we're looking for an ML engineer/data scientist to help us
build the next generation of legal research products. The data team at Casetext
is working on groundbreaking legal technology for document recommendation and
search. If you have industry experience developing production software for
machine learning, especially in areas like NLP, graph models, topic modeling,
and/or recommendation engines, we'd love to talk to you.

Our data science stack includes AWS EMR, Apache Spark (core, mllib, and
streaming), Elasticsearch and raw Lucene, scikit-learn, and more.  Our team
works primarily in Scala, Java, and Python but we're open to new technologies
as well. As an engineer on our data team, you'll work with an exceptional team
of engineers, scientists, and attorneys to build data science products that
solve real problems for our customers. We're looking for people who will
naturally take ownership of data products and who can bring a project all the
way from fast prototype to production.

Key Qualifications

      □ Passion for software engineering as evidenced by at least 2 years of
        industry experience in a primarily engineering focused role .
      □ Experience in data science fundamentals (e.g. classification models,
        clustering, topic models) with knowledge (and preferably some
        experience) in a more advanced area such as recommendation engines,
        neural networks, or NLP.
      □ Solid skills in Python or similar scripting language and in a compiled
        language (preferably Java, Scala, Rust, or C++).
      □ Experience working with modern data stores such as MySQL/Postgres, S3,
        Cassandra or similar.
      □ Some experience working with AWS, Google Cloud, or Heroku.
      □ Knowledge and some experience with apache Spark or similar data
        platform.

Apply for this job

Casetext Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
