[84963f7c-5]

Senior Data Scientist

Mountain View or San Francisco
Data
Full Time
Apply for this job

Join one of the most exciting companies in Silicon Valley that is poised to
disrupt the way we live our daily lives.  Named CNBC's Top 50 Disruptors and on
its way to becoming the brand for the way we learn to get jobs, Udacity is
looking for people to join its Data team to have a 10X impact on the world.  If
you love a challenge, can take risks and truly want to make a difference, read
on.

At Udacity, our mission is to democratize education.  We aim to bring
accessible, affordable, engaging, and highly relevant higher education to the
world. We believe that education is no longer limited to four years or four
walls ? it?s a lifelong pursuit. Technology is advancing rapidly, and there is
a growing skills gap between job-seekers and career opportunities that Udacity
is dedicated to closing through education. To do this, we're rethinking how
education is made and delivered by empowering our students to advance
themselves personally and professionally, and help them land their dream job.

As a Senior Data Scientist on the Data Team at Udacity, you'll directly impact
our students' lives ? be it by predicting students that need more help to
effectively complete a course, devising strategies for effective and timely
communication, or by analyzing which content is not resonating with students.

Job Responsibilities

      + Guide the evolution of product using Data driven analysis.
      + Analyze the student data and predict student engagement and churn.
      + Understand the data architecture, improve it by proposing effective
        data table layouts, and write data pipelines to transform data.
      + Improve efficiency of course and Nanodegree program content by
        analyzing which content works and which doesn't.
      + Devise effective A/B tests and effectively analyze data to establish a
        causal impact.
      + Optimize marketing spend by effectively segmenting students
      + Establish best practices for data science workflows, thorough analysis,
        and evangelize data driven decision making.
      + Mentor data analysts and other data scientists on the team.

Skills required

      + SQL (intermediate) - Thorough understanding of SQL JOINs, Common table
        expressions (window functions) to gather and aggregate data.
      + Data munging - Ability to manipulate data effortlessly using Pandas/R.
      + Data visualization - Ability to tell a story with data using
        appropriate visualizations (packages like matplotlib, ggplot2, etc.).
      + Scripting - Python (intermediate level)
      + ML algorithms (scikit-learn/R) - Prior experience/knowledge of machine
        learning algorithms such as logistic regression, SVM, k-means, random
        forests etc.
      + Statistical Inference and Modeling - Thorough understanding of
        inferential statistics, p-values, confidence intervals, t-tests, etc.
      + Some experience with web frameworks such as Flask/Django is preferred
        but not required.

Our Tech Stack

      + AWS Redshift & Postgres - Data warehousing
      + Airflow - Data pipelines and ETL
      + AWS Database Migration Service (DMS) - for ETL
      + Scikit-learn for ML algorithms
      + Docker Stacks for sharing a common dev environment
      + Github, Docker Hub, CircleCI, Datadog, New Relic, Airbrake, Pager Duty

We are an equal opportunity employer and value diversity at our company. We do
not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin,
gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, veteran status, or disability
status.

Apply for this job

Udacity Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
