

Data Scientist – Big Data & Analytics
KPMG
New York, NY United States


The fastest growing Big Four professional services firm in the U.S., KPMG is
known for being a great place to work and build a career. We provide audit, tax
and advisory services for organizations in today’s most important industries.
Our growth is driven by delivering real results for our clients. It’s also
enabled by our culture, which encourages individual development, embraces an
inclusive environment, rewards innovative excellence and supports our
communities. With qualities like those, it’s no wonder we’re consistently
ranked among the best companies to work for by Fortune Magazine, Consulting
Magazine, Working Mother Magazine, Diversity Inc. and others. If you’re as
passionate about your future as we are, join our team.

KPMG is currently seeking a Data Scientist – Big Data & Analytics, to join our
team in any of the following offices; New York, Washington DC, Philadelphia,
Chicago, Atlanta, Dallas, Denver, Irvine or Seattle (will consider other remote
locations) .

Responsibilities:

  • Retrieve, prepare, and process a rich data variety of data sources such as
    social media, news, internal/external documents, emails, financial data,
    and operational data
  • Analyze and model structured data and implement algorithms to support
    analysis using advanced statistical and mathematical methods from
    statistics, machine learning, data mining, econometrics, and operations
    research
  • Perform Statistical Natural Language Processing to mine unstructured data,
    using methods such as document clustering, topic analysis, named entity
    recognition, document classification, and sentiment analysis
  • Utilize a diverse array of technologies and tools as needed, to deliver
    insights, such as R, SAS, Python, Spark, Hadoop, Qlikview, and Tableau
  • Translate advanced business analytics problems into technical approaches
    that yield actionable recommendations, in diverse domains such as risk
    management, product development, marketing research, supply chain, and
    public policy; communicate results and educate others through insightful
    visualizations, reports and presentations
  • Perform exploratory data analysis, generate and test working hypotheses,
    and uncover interesting trends and relationships

Qualifications:

  • Master’s degree from an accredited college/university in Computer Science,
    Statistics, Mathematics, Engineering, Econometrics, or related fields, with
    five years of relevant experience and strong knowledge in at least one of
    the following fields: statistics, data mining, machine learning,
    statistics, operations research, econometrics, natural language processing,
    and/or information retrieval; PhD preferred
  • Deep experience in extracting, cleaning, preparing, and modeling data;
    command-line scripting, data structures, and algorithms; and working in a
    Linux environment
  • Proficiency in analysis packages (e.g. R, SAS, Matlab) and programming
    languages (e.g. Python, Ruby, Java, Scala)
  • Ability to translate engagement objectives to a project plan with
    milestones, and resource/technology requirements, and teach, lead, and
    manage projects to successful execution
  • Ability to work with clients to assess needs, provide assistance, and
    resolve problems, using excellent problem-solving skills and verbal/written
    communication to non-technical audiences
  • Ability to travel up to 80%
  • Applicants must be currently authorized to work in the United States
    without the need for visa sponsorship now or in the future

KPMG offers a comprehensive compensation and benefits package. KPMG, an equal
opportunity employer/disability/veteran. KPMG maintains a drug-free workplace.
KPMG will consider for employment qualified applicants with criminal histories
in a manner consistent with the requirements of applicable local, state or
federal law (including San Francisco Ordinance number 131192). No phone calls
or agencies please.


Click here to apply for this position.*

Job code: 63608
52119833
