Skip to Main Content

  * DPS Home
  * Services
      + Crime Records
          o Criminal History Search
          o Fingerprint Services
          o Sex Offender Search
      + Criminal Investigations
          o Polygraph School
      + Driver License/ID
          o Address Change
          o Driver Record Request
          o Office Locations
          o Renewal
      + Law Enforcement Support
          o Breath Alcohol Testing
          o Communications
          o Crime Laboratory
          o NIBRS/TIBRS
          o SAJICC
      + Regulatory Services
          o Capitol Access Pass
          o Compassionate Use Program
          o Handgun Licensing
          o Controlled Substances
          o Ignition Interlock
          o Texas Metals Program
          o Precursor Laboratory Apparatus
          o Private Security
          o Texas Prescription Program
          o Vehicle Inspection
      + Texas 1033
  * Employment
  * About Us
      + About DPS
      + Contact Us
      + Fitness Wellness Info
      + General Information
      + Maps to DPS
      + Medal of Valor
      + Organization Chart (PDF)
      + Site Index
      + Solicitations
      + Tribute to Fallen Employees


Enter Text Below
[Search DPS        ] Search DPS 
                        Employment/Career Opportunities

Job Opportunities  |   Applicant Login  |   Internal DPS Opportunities  |   Job
                      Descriptions  |   Job Interest Card
                  ADA Compliance   |   Become a State Trooper


                                                                               
Powered by NEOGOV

      Job Title:         Business Intelligence Statistician, DLD - Austin - HQ

  Closing Date/Time:     Tue. 01/17/17 11:59 PM Central Time

        Salary:          $3,763.16 - $6,149.00 Monthly

       Job Type:         Full-time, Regular, day shift

       Location:         Austin, Texas

 

Print Job Information | Apply  

 
Job Summary  Benefits  Supplemental Questions
 
Performs advanced (senior level) statistical work for the Driver License
Business Intelligence Center. Work involves coordinating the planning,
analysis, and presentation of statistical data and reports. Works under
limited supervision, with considerable latitude for the use of initiative and
independent judgment.

State Classification #:  0628
State Classification Title:  Statistician III
Salary Group:  B20

The following Military Occupational Specialty codes are generally applicable
to this position. Applicants must fully complete the summary of experience to
determine if minimum qualifications are met.
MGT15, 61AX

                                General Duties:
Identify relationships and trends in data, as well as any factors that could
affect the results of research.

Report results of statistical analysis, including information in the form of
graphs, charts, maps, and tables.

Analyze and interpret statistical data to identify significant differences in
relationships among sources of information.

Adapt statistical methods to solve specific problems in many fields, such as
demographics, business process management, and performance management.

Develop software applications or programming for processing large amounts of
data for statistical modeling and graphic analysis.

Develop and test experimental designs, sampling techniques, and analytical
methods.

Prepare data for processing by organizing information, checking for any
inaccuracies, and adjusting and weighting the raw data.

Plan data collection methods for specific projects and determine the types and
sizes of sample groups to be used.

Evaluate the statistical methods and procedures used to obtain data to ensure
validity, applicability, efficiency, and accuracy.

Perform other duties as assigned.

                           Education and Experience:
Education - Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with
major course work in Operations Research, Business, or Mathematics
(Statistics).

Experience ? Minimum of two (2) years' progressively responsible experience in
developing, compiling, analyzing, and interpreting statistical data.

Substitution Note:  Additional work experience of the type described can
substitute for the college studies requirement on a year-for-year basis to a
maximum of four (4) years. Any combination of education and experience that
meets these basic requirements is acceptable. A Master's degree with major
course work in one of the specified disciplines above may substitute for one
(1) year of the basic work experience requirement.

Licensure and/or Certification - Must possess a valid driver license from
State of residence and automobile insurance.

Regulatory knowledge - Working knowledge of, or the ability to rapidly
assimilate information related to TXDPS, State, and Federal regulations,
legislation, guidelines, policies and procedures.

Analytical skills - Must be analytical, detail-oriented, and able to
multi-task without sacrificing accuracy or timeliness.  Ability to analyze
problems, identify causative factors, and apply actions to effectively resolve
current issues and prevent recurrences of problem conditions.

Interpersonal skills ? Must exercise excellent interpersonal skills ? position
continually requires demonstrated poise, tact, diplomacy, and an ability to
establish and maintain effective working/professional relationships with
internal and external customers. 

Presentation/Communication skills ? Must be able to effectively communicate
and present information and/or training to individuals and diverse small or
large groups.   Must be able to produce clear, concise, and professional
documents, reports, and presentations.

Organizational skills - Must be organized, flexible, and able to prioritize in
a multi-demand and constantly changing environment.  Demonstrated ability to
meet multiple and sometimes conflicting deadlines without sacrificing accuracy
or timelines; ability to work independently; and to understand and effectively
apply complex oral and written instructions and procedures.

Computer systems / hardware / software ? Proficiency with Microsoft Office
Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook).

Confidentiality ? Must be able to responsibly handle sensitive and
confidential information and situations.

Schedule - Availability for occasional travel throughout the state is
required.


                           Supplemental information:
DPS employee who is selected for a position in their current salary group and
state title will be transferred with no salary change.

DPS employee who is selected for a position in their current salary group with
a new state title may receive an increase up to 3.4%.

Salary is contingent upon qualifications and is subject to salary
administration and budgetary restrictions.

PHYSICAL and/or ENVIRONMENTAL DEMANDS

The physical and environmental demands described here are representative of
those encountered and/or necessary for the employee to successfully perform
the essential functions of this job; reasonable accommodations may be made to
enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.

Environment: Office
Ambulatory skills, e.g. stand, walk, sit
Hand-eye coordination and arm/hand/finger dexterity
Ability to speak, hear, and exercise visual acuity
Ability to transfer weights of forty (40) pounds anticipated for this position
Driving requirements: Occasional (20%)

Valid Texas driver license required.  If hired with a valid out of state
driver license, a Texas license must be obtained within ninety (90) days of
moving to Texas.  If moving within the state of Texas, a valid Texas license
must be obtained within thirty (30) days.

DUE TO THE HIGH VOLUME OF APPLICATIONS WE DO NOT ACCEPT TELEPHONE CALLS. ONLY
CANDIDATES SELECTED FOR INTERVIEW WILL BE CONTACTED.

Travel: 20%
Number of Vacancies: 1

State of Texas retirees may be rehired for full-time, non-commissioned
positions only under very specific circumstances. 


 



The Texas Department of Public Safety is an Equal Opportunity Employer.


                                 [txseperato]

| Accessibility | Site Policies | TRAIL | TSIEC | Report Fraud, Waste or Abuse
                  | American Recovery and Reinvestment ACT |
   | Outlook Web Access | ETA Time Entry | Texas Homeland Security | Public
                    Information Act | Compact with Texans |
 | The Governor's Committee on People with Disabilities | Personnel Complaint
                          Process | Customer Survey |
                                 | texas.gov |


? 2000-2010 Texas Department of Public Safety.

