[databricks]

Software Engineer - Machine Learning

San Francisco
Engineering
Full-time
Apply for this job

At Databricks, we make Big Data simple. The state-of-the-art in Big Data is
"simple things complex, complex things impossible." We think the future should
be "simple things easy, and complex things possible." Join us and work with
world's leading experts in distributed systems, databases, and networking to
help build a next-generation Big Data platform that users love.

As a software engineer in the advanced analytics team you will implement
machine learning algorithms in Spark that scale to massive datasets and build
tools that help users apply machine learning in practice. You will also work
with world?s leading experts in distributed systems and integrate machine
learning solutions into Databricks.

In your work, you will need to have a high-level view of machine learning to
help guide major decisions, a deep understanding of the mathematics to ensure
proper implementation, and strong engineering skills to make deliverables in
Spark and Databricks.

Databricks? vision is to empower anyone to easily build and deploy advanced
analytics solutions. The company was founded by the team who created Apache?
Spark?, a powerful open source data processing engine built for sophisticated
analytics, ease of use, and speed. Databricks is the largest contributor to the
open source Apache Spark project. The company has also trained over 40,000
users on Apache Spark, and has the largest number of customers deploying Spark
to date. Databricks provides a just-in-time data platform, to simplify data
integration, real-time experimentation, and robust deployment of production
applications. Databricks is venture-backed by Andreessen Horowitz and NEA. For
more information, contact info@databricks.com.

REQUIREMENTS

      + Strong desire to work at a rapidly growing startup and make it a
        success.
      + Advanced degree in computer science, statistics, math, or similar
        fields.
      + Thorough knowledge of machine learning, statistics, graph algorithms,
        linear algebra, and numerical optimization.
      + Thorough knowledge of algorithms, data structures, and OOD/OOP
        principles.
      + Experience with distributed systems such as Spark and Hadoop.
      + General-purpose languages such as Scala, Java, Python, and C++.

PLUSES

      + Familiarity with data analysis and visualization using R, MATLAB,SQL,
        or PyData.
      + Experience with building end-to-end machine learning products.
      + Publications in top machine learning conferences or journals.

BENEFITS

      + Medical, dental, vision
      + 401k Retirement Plan
      + Unlimited Paid Time Off
      + Catered lunch (every day), snacks, and drinks
      + Gym reimbursement
      + Employee referral bonus program
      + Awesome coworkers
      + Maternity and paternity plans

Apply for this job

Databricks Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
