Apply Now

Data Scientist

at LendUp (View all jobs)
San Francisco, CA

LendUp builds technology that expands credit access and choice for the more
than 80 million Americans who currently have limited options within the
traditional banking system. It develops safe, transparent products designed to
help customers get access to more credit at lower rates over time where and
when available, which furthers LendUp's goal of improving financial literacy
and providing customers with an opportunity to build their credit scores. 

LendUp is located in downtown San Francisco and is backed by prominent Silicon
Valley investors including Y-Combinator, Google Ventures, Susa Ventures, Data
Collective, Kleiner Perkins, Andreessen Horowitz Seed Fund, Kapor Capital, QED,
Eagle Cliff Investors, Yuri Milner and Thomvest Ventures, plus other highly
regarded angels and entrepreneurs.

About the role:

You?ll power decisions at the core of LendUp on lending, growth, operations,
and more. We want you to apply the best machine learning techniques to Lending,
and help us find a way to help the tens of millions of Americans banks won?t
lend to.

You will:

  * Apply advanced machine learning models and statistical techniques
  * Work on every aspect of the problem: data munging, feature engineering,
    modeling, evaluation launching models to production, and monitoring
  * Work collaboratively with our credit and growth teams to drive end-to-end
    implementation
  * Learn from some of the smartest and most experienced data scientists and
    engineers in the world

You have:

  * Good understanding of statistical methods and machine learning
  * Proficiency in Python, Java, or similar
  * Strong background in statistics and machine learning
  * Previous experience in a data science role
  * Strong analytical thinking, driven to learn fast, be creative, and win as a
    team

Why we work at LendUp:

  * Work / life balance
  * Three kitchens fully stocked with healthy snacks
  * 100% company paid medical, dental and vision insurance
  * Weekly happy hours, quarterly team building, LendUp-sponsored volunteerism
  * Open vacation and sick leave policy
  * Catered lunch every day
  * Free onsite gym
  * Dog friendly office

Apply for this Job
* Required
(Optional)
Almost there! Review your information then click 'Submit Application' to apply.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
First Name * [                    ]
Last Name * [                    ]
Email * [                    ]
Phone [                    ]
Resume/CV
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
Cover Letter
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LinkedIn Profile
[                    ]
Website
[                    ]
How did you hear about this job?
[                    ]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S. Equal Opportunity Employment Information (Completion is voluntary)

Individuals seeking employment at LendUp are considered without regards to
race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, marital status, ancestry,
physical or mental disability, veteran status, gender identity, or sexual
orientation. You are being given the opportunity to provide the following
information in order to help us comply with federal and state Equal Employment
Opportunity/Affirmative Action record keeping, reporting, and other legal
requirements.

Completion of the form is entirely voluntary. Whatever your decision, it will
not be considered in the hiring process or thereafter. Any information that you
do provide will be recorded and maintained in a confidential file.

Gender [Please select           ]
Are you Hispanic/Latino? [Please select           ]
Please identify your race [Please select                            ]
Race & Ethnicity Definitions

If you believe you belong to any of the categories of protected veterans listed
below, please indicate by making the appropriate selection. As a government
contractor subject to Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act
(VEVRAA), we request this information in order to measure the effectiveness of
the outreach and positive recruitment efforts we undertake pursuant to VEVRAA.
Classification of protected categories is as follows:

A "disabled veteran" is one of the following: a veteran of the U.S. military,
ground, naval or air service who is entitled to compensation (or who but for
the receipt of military retired pay would be entitled to compensation) under
laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; or a person who was
discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected
disability.

A "recently separated veteran" means any veteran during the three-year period
beginning on the date of such veteran's discharge or release from active duty
in the U.S. military, ground, naval, or air service.

An "active duty wartime or campaign badge veteran" means a veteran who served
on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service during a war,
or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized
under the laws administered by the Department of Defense.

An "Armed forces service medal veteran" means a veteran who, while serving on
active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service, participated in
a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces service medal was
awarded pursuant to Executive Order 12985.

Veteran Status 
[Please select                                                          ]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Form CC-305

OMB Control Number 1250-0005

Expires 1/31/2017

Voluntary Self-Identification of Disability

Why are you being asked to complete this form?

Because we do business with the government, we must reach out to, hire, and
provide equal opportunity to qualified people with disabilities^1. To help us
measure how well we are doing, we are asking you to tell us if you have a
disability or if you ever had a disability. Completing this form is voluntary,
but we hope that you will choose to fill it out. If you are applying for a job,
any answer you give will be kept private and will not be used against you in
any way.

If you already work for us, your answer will not be used against you in any
way. Because a person may become disabled at any time, we are required to ask
all of our employees to update their information every five years. You may
voluntarily self-identify as having a disability on this form without fear of
any punishment because you did not identify as having a disability earlier.

How do I know if I have a disability?

You are considered to have a disability if you have a physical or mental
impairment or medical condition that substantially limits a major life
activity, or if you have a history or record of such an impairment or medical
condition.

Disabilities include, but are not limited to:

  * Blindness
  * Deafness
  * Cancer
  * Diabetes
  * Epilepsy
  * Autism
  * Cerebral palsy
  * HIV/AIDS
  * Schizophrenia
  * Muscular dystrophy
  * Bipolar disorder
  * Major depression
  * Multiple sclerosis (MS)
  * Missing limbs or partially missing limbs
  * Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
  * Obsessive compulsive disorder
  * Impairments requiring the use of a wheelchair
  * Intellectual disability (previously called mental retardation)

Disability Status [Please select                                            ]
Reasonable Accommodation Notice

Federal law requires employers to provide reasonable accommodation to qualified
individuals with disabilities. Please tell us if you require a reasonable
accommodation to apply for a job or to perform your job. Examples of reasonable
accommodation include making a change to the application process or work
procedures, providing documents in an alternate format, using a sign language
interpreter, or using specialized equipment.

^1Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. For more
information about this form or the equal employment obligations of Federal
contractors, visit the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Federal Contract
Compliance Programs (OFCCP) website at www.dol.gov/ofccp.

PUBLIC BURDEN STATEMENT: According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 no
persons are required to respond to a collection of information unless such
collection displays a valid OMB control number. This survey should take about 5
minutes to complete.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Submit Application]
Share this job:  
Powered by  Greenhouse Logo
Read our Privacy Policy
