

Data Scientist, Natural Language Processing
KPMG
San Francisco, CA United States


The fastest growing Big Four professional services firm in the U.S., KPMG is
known for being a great place to work and build a career. We provide audit, tax
and advisory services for organizations in today?s most important industries.
Our growth is driven by delivering real results for our clients. It?s also
enabled by our culture, which encourages individual development, embraces an
inclusive environment, rewards innovative excellence and supports our
communities. With qualities like those, it?s no wonder we?re consistently
ranked among the best companies to work for by Fortune Magazine, Consulting
Magazine, Working Mother Magazine, Diversity Inc. and others. If you?re as
passionate about your future as we are, join our team.

KPMG is currently seeking a Data Scientist to join our Advanced Data Analytics
team in our San Francisco, CA office.

Responsibilities:

  * Utilize statistical natural language processing to mine unstructured data,
    and create insights; analyze and model structured data using advanced
    statistical methods and implement algorithms and software needed to perform
    analyses
  * Build document clustering, topic analysis, text classification, named
    entity recognition, sentiment analysis, and part-of-speech tagging methods
    for unstructured and semi-structured data
  * Cluster and analyze large amounts of user generated content and process
    data in large-scale environments using Amazon EC2, Storm, Hadoop and Spark
  * Develop and perform text classification using methods such as logistic
    regression, decision trees, support vector machines and maximum entropy
    classifiers
  * Develop methods to support and drive client engagements focused on Big Data
    and Advanced Business Analytics, in diverse domains such as product
    development, marketing research, public policy, optimization, and risk
    management; Communicate results and educate others through reports and
    presentations
  * Perform text mining, generate and test working hypotheses, prepare and
    analyze historical data and identify patterns

Qualifications:

  * Six years of professional experience working in Natural Language Processing
    or related field
  * Experience with command-line scripting, data structures and algorithms and
    ability to work in a Linux environment, processing large amounts of data in
    a cloud environment
  * Masters degree or PhD from an accredited college/university in Computer
    Science, Computational Linguistics, Statistics, Mathematics, Engineering,
    Bioinformatics, Physics, Operations Research, or related fields (strong
    mathematical/statis background with ability to understand algorithms and
    methods from a mathematical viewpoint and an intuitive viewpoint)
  * Strong data extraction and processing, using MapReduce, Pig, and/or Hive
    preferred
  * Applicants must be currently authorized to work in the United States
    without the need for visa sponsorship now or in the future

KPMG offers a comprehensive compensation and benefits package. KPMG, an equal
opportunity employer/disability/veteran. KPMG maintains a drug-free workplace.
KPMG will consider for employment qualified applicants with criminal histories
in a manner consistent with the requirements of applicable local, state or
federal law (including San Francisco Ordinance number 131192). No phone calls
or agencies please.


Click here to apply for this position.*

Job code: 63840
52278592
