

                                                                      ?     [p]
[pixel]       Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Current [pixel]
                page                                  page                                  page                                 page
                Home                                 Search                                Search                                 Job                                                                                                          
                                                    openings                               results                              details
 
   ● Job details
                  
   [pixel]                                    [pixel]
   [pixel]

  [pixel]
                                  Job 1 of 1
  [pixel]

               Submit to job   Send to friend   Save to cart   

   [pixel]

   Req Number     45536BR

   Job Title      Research Data Analyst

   Job Code and   6256 Research Data Analyst II
   Payroll Title

   Location       UCSF Parnassus

   Department     Radiology & Biomedical Imaging
   Name

   Work Days      Monday - Friday; 8:00 am - 5:00 pm

   Shift          Days

   Shift Length   8 Hours

   Job Summary    JOB OVERVIEW
                  The Radiology Outcomes Research Laboratory (RORL) is
                  hiring a Research Data Analyst who will be responsible
                  for data cleaning, management, and analyses of large,
                  complex databases in our Partnership for DOSE Study. The
                  primary research focus is radiation dose from computed
                  tomography (CT) scanning, and will include comparative
                  analyses across many collaborating institutions both
                  domestic and international.

                  The RORL focuses on various aspects of outcomes research,
                  health services research (HSR), health policy, and
                  evidence-based medicine (EBM), mainly in radiological and
                  biomedical imaging. Current projects address ways to
                  reduce patient exposure to ionizing radiation from CT
                  imaging.

                  The primary responsibilities of the Research Data Analyst
                  are to clean, process, prepare, and analyze statistical
                  data from the Partnership for DOSE Study. Careful
                  attention to detail, experience manipulating, large,
                  complex databases as efficiently as possible, and
                  statistical analysis are critical attributes for this
                  position.

                  The Research Data Analyst also will coordinate with the
                  group’s IT Manager, Project Managers, medical physicists,
                  other statisticians and researchers, and our third-party
                  software provider to ensure steady and accurate data flow
                  to our SQL Server database. Thus, familiarity with
                  efficient database design, data structures, and different
                  computer systems will be helpful.

                  For most data manipulation and analysis, the individual
                  primarily will use SAS. Familiarity with computer
                  hardware and other software will be helpful, including
                  Microsoft Access, SQL, XML, etc.

                  The Research Data Analyst will assist the Principal
                  Investigator (PI), other collaborators, and other
                  statisticians and programmers with data analyses intended
                  for manuscripts, presentations, grant submissions and
                  grant progress reports. The individual must have
                  excellent communication and analytical skills.

                  DEPARTMENT OF RADIOLOGY & BIOMEDICAL IMAGING
                  The Department of Radiology & Biomedical Imaging at UCSF
                  combines clinical excellence, trailblazing research, and
                  outstanding education in a leading academic health
                  sciences institution. Our faculty includes some of the
                  foremost names in diagnostic and interventional radiology
                  today. The Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging
                  provides state-of-the-art clinical imaging for patients.
                  In addition, it conducts world-class scientific research
                  to develop the next generation of clinical imaging tools
                  and techniques to fight cancer and other life-threatening
                  medical conditions globally.

                  ABOUT UCSF
                  The University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) is a
                  leading university dedicated to promoting health
                  worldwide through advanced biomedical research,
                  graduate-level education in the life sciences and health
                  professions, and excellence in patient care. It is the
                  only campus in the 10-campus UC system dedicated
                  exclusively to the health sciences.

                  *LI-NF1

   Required       • Degree in Biostatistics or Statistics or related fields
   Qualifications (e.g. Epidemiology) and two to three years of experience
                  in data analysis
                  • Minimum two or more years of programming experience
                  with SAS
                  • Experience with data analysis resulting in publications
                  • Ability to work independently and follow directions
                  when asked
                  • Candidate must be highly detailed-oriented with
                  exceptional organizational skills
                  • Ability to skillfully communicate with a broad range of
                  academic faculty, trainees, health care advocates and
                  stakeholders, program managers, staff researchers,
                  programmers and data managers, and administrative staff

                  Note: Fingerprinting and background check required.

   Preferred      • Solid understanding of statistical and epidemiological
   Qualifications research concepts
                  • Demonstrated expertise in Health Services Research,
                  Health Policy, or Clinical Trials
                  • Working knowledge of CHR regulations
                  • Experience in working collaboratively with multiple
                  academic institutions
                  • Experience handling complex data visualization for big
                  data sets
                  • Knowledge of data processing, data analysis, data
                  modeling, and data mining
                  • Advanced skills in more or more data visualization
                  tools (e.g. Tableau, R, Google Analytics, D3.js)
                  • Solid knowledge of HIPAA regulations and certified in
                  Human Participants Protection

   License/       n/a
   Certification

   Position Type  Full Time

   Percentage     100%

   Equal          The University of California San Francisco is an Equal
   Employment     Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified
   Opportunity    applicants will receive consideration for employment
                  without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual
                  orientation, gender identity, national origin, age,
                  protected veteran or disabled status, or genetic
                  information.

               Submit to job   Send to friend   Save to cart   

 
