Skip Navigation
EXPERIAN
Menu

  • Company Profile

      □ Corporate Fact Sheet
      □ Principal Business
      □ Areas of expertise
      □ Corporate responsibility
      □ Locations
      □ Investor relations
  • Our Commitment

      □ Our Responsibility
      □ Our History of Service
      □ Videos
      □ FAQ’S
      □ Resources
  • Press
  • Careers

      □ Our Culture
      □ Our Career Areas
      □ Our Opportunities
      □ University Relations
  • Events

      □ Conferences
  • Online Community
  • Suppliers
  • Certified Vendors

      □ Third Party Application Vendors

Imagine your tomorrow

Finding your perfect role at Experian.

Search Jobs

Ready to translate your passions into powerful insights? Bring your ideas, your
enthusiasm, and your expertise to Experian.

Toggle Search

Keywords [                    ]

Location [                    ] [Use Location]

Radius [Miles   ]

Search Experian Jobs

Marketing Jobs

You know what it takes to excel in a Marketing job. And when you work at
Experian, you’ll have the opportunity to turn your skill, expertise and passion
into a valuable career. As a leading global information services company, we
help businesses in 80 countries manage credit risk, prevent fraud, target
marketing offers and automate decision making. Our talented people are making
all this happen, and we reward their achievement with a comprehensive benefits
package and opportunities for professional development. The elements for your
success are all in place at Experian. Consider our Marketing jobs, and join us.

Data Scientist - CCM

Apply
Job Description - Data Scientist - CCM (162511)
Experian is an Equal Opportunity Employer
Data Scientist - CCM-Job Number:162511

Description

Data Scientist / Data Engineer

Experian Marketing Services is looking
for a Data Scientist / Data Engineer to
join the Analytics team. The Analytics
team is dedicated to providing clients
with innovative analyses, solutions, and
empirically based strategy through
business focused statistics and deep data
dives. The Data Scientist / Data Engineer
role will be primarily focused on:

• Platform engineering - architect and
build technical platforms for our
analytical, data processing, and
algorithmic engines to run at scale
• Data processing & cleaning – Maintain
and enhance the fidelity of the data
collected, imported, and exported into
the data warehouses and databases
• Data mining - uncover deep insight
hidden in our client’s data, and provide
tactical guidance on how act on findings
• Algorithm design - develop quantitative
models, leveraging machine learning and
advanced data analysis techniques
• Business intelligence – provide
business insights across finance,
product, and client strategy

As part of this role, you will be a
creative thinker in how to solve
problems, utilizing quantitative/
technical skills along with business
understanding to devise solutions. You’ll
help develop Experian’s big data
technology infrastructure in order to
dive deep into our data sets and develop
innovative new capabilities.
                                          Reasonable Accommodation
Qualifications
                                          Experian provides reasonable
Responsibilities                          accommodation so that qualified
                                          applicants with a disability may
• Partner closely with business leads in  participate in the selection process.
Client Success, Strategic Services,       Please advise us of any
Marketing, & Product to plan out valuable accommodations you request
data science projects                     in order to express interest in a
• Work in complex data systems and        position by e-mailing:
wrangle data from multiple client sources talentacquisitonops@experian.com
including various Experian owned          or 714-830-5022. Please state your
databases                                 request for assistance in your
• Conduct analysis and build models to    message. Only reasonable
uncover key learnings from data, leading  accommodation requests related to
to appropriate strategy recommendations   applying for a specific position
• Serve as an algorithm and engineering   within Experian will be reviewed at
lead to build advanced quantitative       the e-mail address and phone number
solutions into our overall technical      supplied. Thank you for considering a
platform                                  career with Experian.
• Work alongside client stakeholders to
apply our findings and developments and
continually improve the return on our
clients investment
Qualifications

• 2+ years of experience in a
quantitative or technical work
environment or advanced degree (PhD or MA
/MS) in quantitative field (e.g.
mathematics, economics, operations
research etc.)
• Intuitive sense of how quantitative and
technical work aligns closely with
business priorities and business value
• Ability to effectively work with
business leads: strong communication
skills, ability to synthesize conclusions
for non-experts and desire to influence
business decisions
• High comfort level with database
architectures and infrastructure
construction
• High comfort level with programming,
e.g. languages such as SQL, Python, R,
etc
• Knowledge of quantitative methods –
statistics, machine learning, general
data analysis
• Intense intellectual curiosity – strong
desire to always be learning
• Analytical, creative, and innovative
approach to solving open-ended problems
• Highly collaborative, team-player
attitude


Job:Marketing, Product & Communications
Primary Location:United States-New
York-New York
Schedule:Full-time
Job Posting:01/03/2017, 11:52:56 AM
Organization:CCM
Apply

Join Our Community

Let us notify you when we post openings that match your preferences.

Email Address[                    ]

College Level[Enter College Level]

Years of Experience[Enter Years of Experience]

Area of InterestStay up-to-date about the latest opportunities at Experian!
Choose at least one category and/or location from the auto-suggestions and
click 'Add' to subscribe.

Category[                    ]

Location[                    ]

Add

  • Marketing, New York, New York, United StatesRemove
  • Remove

Confirm Email [                    ]

[Submit]

Join Our Conversation:

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • LinkedIn
  • YouTube

Share on Social

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • LinkedIn
  • Email

Employee Spotlight Life at Experian’s Cyber Security Department

Employee Spotlight Life at Experian’s Cyber Security Department

Read More

Loyal employee explains how we are committed to data integrity and having the
highest quality data.

The First Year of a Business Development Career at Experian

The First Year of a Business Development Career at Experian

Read More

Director of Business Operations Joshua Ryan describes his first year at
Experian and what he loves most about his job.

Product Development | Working at Experian

Product Development | Working at Experian

Read More

At the heart of innovation is where you’ll find our Product Development teams.
Learn more about how they’re making a difference.

Employee Spotlight: Working with Experian’s Financial Department

Employee Spotlight: Working with Experian’s Financial Department

Read More

Senior Financial Analyst, Matt Shangraw discusses several different aspects of
working in Experian’s finance department.

Employee Spotlight: Working with Experian’s IT Grad Program

Employee Spotlight: Working with Experian’s IT Grad Program

Read More

Former marine explains how she and her team are innovating the future of tech.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

© 2017 Experian Information Solutions, Inc.
All rights reserved.

About Experian

  • Legal Terms & Conditions
  • Privacy Policy
  • Press
  • Careers
  • Investor Relations
  • Online Community
  • Contact Us
  • Sitemap

Experian and the Experian marks used herein are service marks or registered
trademarks of Experian Information Solutions, Inc. Other product and company
names mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners.

Quantcast
