 
Search All Jobs >> Radford Associate Partner, Workforce Analytics (San
Francisco or San Jose)

Radford Associate Partner, Workforce Analytics (San Francisco or San Jose)

United States, CA, San Francisco

Apply Share
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Job Description

Radford Is Looking For an Associate Partner, Head of Workforce Analytics

As part of an industry-leading team, you will help empower results for our
clients by delivering innovative and effective workforce solutions in our newly
formed Analytics business group located in the San Francisco Bay Area. As the
Head of Workforce Analytics for Radford, you will have the opportunity to set
the vision, build the team, deliver results for our clients, and impact our
bottom line. You will collaborate with the Analytics team within the broader
Talent, Rewards and Performance (TRP) practice of Aon Hewitt to bring in-depth
technical expertise to our clients within the Technology and Life Sciences
industries. Radford is a part of Aon Hewitt, a business unit of Aon plc


Your Impact As the Head of Workforce Analytics

Job Responsibilities:

  * Employ strong consulting skills, business acumen and data analytics
    expertise to advise HR business leaders on workforce analytics
    opportunities and areas of impact
  * Participate in creating business development strategies along with our
    Marketing team and other internal stakeholders
  * Identify current and future needs among our client base to pursue new or
    expanded opportunities
  * Lead the development of proposals and sales efforts towards the attainment
    of sales goals
  * Advise clients on workforce analytics modeling and methodologies to help
    optimize their HR functions in support of their broader business strategies
    including ROI on talent initiatives, predictive analytics and advanced
    statistical modeling
  * Develop business hypotheses and work closely with Data Scientists to
    identify patterns in HR data, understand indicators and present proofs
  * Communicate complex quantitative analyses in a clear, precise and
    actionable manner



You Bring Knowledge and Expertise

 

Required Experience:

  * Minimum of 10 years relevant work experience in consulting/advisory
    capacity with experience leading project teams in Talent/Human Capital
    Analytics
  * Expert knowledge of major HR functions and strong experience connecting HR
    metrics to business results
  * Strong industry focus in either High Technology or Life Sciences,
    preferably both
  * Excellent interpersonal, collaboration skills and communication skills
  * Expertise in statistical modeling, software and methodologies
  * Good understanding of advanced visualization and analytical ?story telling?
    to present data in a way that?s truly insightful
  * Intellectual curiosity, innovation, passion, speed and resilience in
    dealing with data
  * Track-record of independent learning and technical problem-solving

 

 

Education:

  * MBA, Masters or PH.D in Organizational Psychology, Organizational
    Development, Organizational Behavior, Economics, Statistics or other
    relevant field

We offer you

 

A competitive total rewards package, continuing education & training, and
tremendous potential with a growing worldwide organization.

 

 

Our Colleague Experience:

 

From helping clients gain access to capital after natural disasters, to
creating access to health care and retirement for millions, Aon colleagues
empower results for our clients, communities, and each other every day.  They
make a difference, work with the best, own their potential, and value one
another.  This is the Aon Colleague Experience, defining what it means to work
at Aon and realizing our vision of empowering human and economic possibility.
To learn more visit Aon Colleague Experience.

 

 

 

 

About Aon:

 

Aon plc (NYSE:AON) is the leading global provider of risk management, insurance
and reinsurance brokerage, and human resources solutions and outsourcing
services. Our more than 72,000 colleagues worldwide empower results for clients
in over 120 countries with innovative and effective risk and people solutions
and through industry-leading global resources and technical expertise.  To
learn more visit aon.com.

By applying for a position with Aon, you understand that, should you be made an
offer, it will be contingent on your undergoing and successfully completing a
background check consistent with Aon's employment policies. Background checks
may include some or all of the following based on the nature of the position:
SSN/SIN validation, education verification, employment verification, and
criminal check, search against global sanctions and government watch lists,
fingerprint verification, credit check, and/or drug test.  Pursuant to the San
Francisco Fair Chance Ordinance, we will consider for employment qualified
applicants with arrest and conviction records. You will be notified during the
hiring process which checks are required by the position.

 

Aon provides equal employment opportunities (EEO) to all employees and
applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, creed, sex,
sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, veteran,
marital, or domestic partner status.  Aon is committed to a diverse workforce
and is an affirmative action employer.

 

DISCLAIMER:
Nothing in this job description restricts management's right to assign or
reassign duties and responsibilities to this job at any time.

 

 

 



Job number: 2424799
Category: Consulting
Location: United States, CA, San Francisco
12/16/2016 09:23:33

Not Ready to Apply?

Join our Talent Community to receive key career updates.

Click Here to Join
Your Aon Connections
[aon-banner-default]
?
    

View Similar Jobs

  * Health and Benefits AVP Consultant / Senior Consultant (San Francisco,
    Sacramento or San Jose, CA)
    San Francisco CA
  * Aon Campus - Compensation Consulting Associate
    San Francisco CA
  * Aon Campus - Valuation Analyst
    San Francisco CA

Why Aon

  * What's it like to work at Aon?
    What's it like to work at Aon?
    ?
  * Aon - Empower Results
    Aon - Empower Results
    ?
  * Aon Hewitt: The Future of Employee Engagement
    Aon Hewitt: The Future of Employee Engagement
    ?

  
Careers | Site Map | Investor Relations | Legal | Privacy | Cookie Notice | EEO
/AA & Alternative Access | ? 2015 Aon. plc.
Join Now
Join our Talent Community to receive key career updates.
