Optiver Logo - Careers Center
New Search
Login

Position Details

[ ]
Data Scientists and Quantitative Researchers
Optiver Department IT
Location Chicago
Apply Now

Title: Data Scientists and Quantitative Researchers
Location: Chicago

Optiver is looking for Data Scientists and Quantitative Researchers to join our
Chicago Office. We are continually improving our core derivatives pricing and
parameter models, experimenting with new mathematical models, and leveraging
statistical inference and machine learning techniques to refine existing
trading strategies and develop new ones. Depending on your area of expertise
you may join one of our trading teams as a Data Scientist exploring strategy
improvements and new strategy ideas based on big-data or join Automated Trading
Systems as a Quantitative Researcher to improve our core derivatives pricing.
In both roles you will work closely with traders and developers to creatively
solve problems and see your solutions quickly deployed into Optiver's automated
trading systems.

Who we are:
Optiver is a proprietary global market maker, trading on major financial
markets around the world. We opened our first office in Amsterdam and now have
locations in Chicago, Shanghai, and Sydney. We employ over 900 highly educated
professionals worldwide who are continuously improving the way we work and
striving for excellence in everything we do. Being good is not good enough, and
it is every employee’s responsibility to make our company better. Founded in
1986, Optiver has been profitable every year of its existence.

What you'll do:
• Build and update option pricing models, volatility surfaces, yield curves,
and a variety of other financial models.
• Apply machine learning techniques to trade and market data to identify
patterns and enhance existing trading strategies.
• Work closely with developers and traders to discuss, test, and implement
their ideas.

What you'll need:
• At least a bachelor's degree in mathematics, physics, statistics, computer
science, or a related field.
• Experience using Matlab, R, Python, or other tools for quantitative research.
• Experience using statistical inference to explore large data sets.
• Strong research, analytical, and quantitative skills.
• Hands on programming experience in any programming language.

What you’ll get:
25 days paid vacation; paid commuting expenses up to the maximum allowable
amount; attractive bonus structure; training opportunities; generous 401K
company match; fully paid health insurance premiums; breakfast, lunch, snacks
and beverages provided daily; weekly in-house chair massages; casual dress;
game room and more!

Back Email Apply Now
