JavaScript is turned off in your web browser. Turn it on to take full advantage
of this site, then refresh the page.

Loading...
Skip to Main Content

Career Opportunities: Senior Data Scientist (292382)

Req Id 292382 - Posted 10/21/2016 - Clinical - US-CA-Valencia
  Job Description Print Preview
Apply Apply using LinkedIn™ Save Job Email Job to Friend Return to List

 

Boston Scientific Neuromodulation is currently seeking an exceptional Senior
Data Scientist to join our winning team in Valencia, CA.

Why join Boston Scientific Neuromodulation in California?
We integrate all global operations at our worldwide headquarters in Valencia,
California, close to Los Angeles, close to the beach, close to the mountains,
close to the desert. All the advantages of Southern California and more
affordable than many other areas nearby. Looking for onsite amenities? Check
out our on-campus Bistro, Credit Union, private gym, and Toastmasters club.
Take advantage of the 360 days of sunshine a year on our basketball and
volleyball courts. Join our softball and soccer teams. We even have cricket and
dragon boat racing teams! We also offer numerous volunteer activities and
events in the wonderful communities of Valencia and Santa Clarita. If you like
to work hard and play hard, you'll fit right in. And you'll be well rewarded.
Our salaries are competitive. Our benefits package is generous. And our 401K
program? Forbes ranks it one of the top 10 in the country!

What makes Boston Scientific Neuromodulation so special?
We've seen the difference that neuromodulation technologies, such as spinal
cord stimulation and deep brain stimulation, can make. These breakthrough
platforms have helped more than 400,000 people worldwide over the past four
decades. But there is still enormous potential to help even more people. As a
worldwide leader in neurological devices, we strive to improve every life we
touch through our dedication to innovation, our commitment to people, and our
passion for performance.

 

Primary Function

Responsible for the initiation, design, development, execution, and
implementation of scientific research projects.

 

Duties and Responsibilities

  • Provide thought leadership and project leadership to develop and implement
    analytic methodologies to detect patterns in mid- and large-scale clinical,
    epidemiological, and health insurance data, including methods from
    multivariate statistics and machine learning paradigms.
  • Partner effectively with clinical and marketing team members to identify
    opportunities for innovation by applying data science to business
    challenges.
  • Reframe business needs into analytical hypotheses and support efforts to
    demonstrate the value of our medical technologies.
  • Develop effective visualization tools to communicate results to team
    members and management.
  • Data analytic responsibilities include sample design, data prep,
    identification of appropriate analytic and statistical methodology, model
    development and documentation of process and results

     

    Basic Qualifications

  • M.S. in (bio) statistics, applied statistics, applied mathematics, machine
    learning, or similar quantitative fields of study. MBA applicants will be
    considered.
  • 5+ years of industry experience performing product-oriented analyses, with
    demonstrated expertise in statistics and/or machine learning research
    methodologies.
  • Strong communication skill and proficient project management experience
     

Preferred Qualifications

  • Strong hands-on modeling skills and strong analytic programming skills
    using R, SAS, Matlab, or Python.
  • Working knowledge and understanding of medical coding, including ICD, CPT,
    DRG, etc.
  • Ability to provide leadership to colleagues and mentor junior analysts in
    product-oriented statistical techniques.

Exceptional ability to drive results through strong collaborating and
influencing skills across all business segments and geographies

Boston Scientific is an equal opportunity employer.

 

Apply Apply using LinkedIn™ Save Job Email Job to Friend Return to List
Email this job to a friend
 

    

 
 

    
    The job has been sent to

 

                     Please provide the information below
             Job title:              
        *Your email address:         [                                        ]
   *Your friend's email address:     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
              Message:               [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
         Verification code:          
*Please enter the verification code  
               here:

Send Cancel
Powered by SuccessFactors
