                      View All Jobs                       | Jobs By  | Jobs By
                                                            Location   Category

Research Scientist
Positions: 3                        Apply To This Job
Posted:    12/28/2016                Return To List
Job Type:  Regular Full Time,
           Temp-to-Hire
Location:  US-VA-Manassas
Category:  Professionals
Salary:    Commensurate With
           Experience
Benefits:  Full Benefits
Job Description
Job Summary

Looking for a motivated person with background in
computer science/engineering, information systems,
applied mathematics, or related fields. Strong
programming skills preferred but not required; must have
curiosity and creativity to tackle new and challenging
problems. Ability to comprehend academic / scientific
literature and implement algorithms described in research
papers in software is a plus. Prior experience with
computer vision, machine learning, data mining,
databases, and/or mathematics are a plus.

 

Duties and Responsibilities

Responsibilities include research and development of
software solutions to practical problems in the areas of
image processing, computer vision, biometrics, data
management, and information systems. Must work closely
with other researchers and engineers to ensure solutions
meet customer requirements.

Skills/Requirements
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities

Working knowledge of C++, Python, or Java preferred,
experience with libraries such as OpenCV , Boost, BLAS,
etc. are a plus. Experience with CUDA/GPU programming is
a plus. Experience with databases such as SQL or Mongo is
a plus. Experience with Linux and/or mobile operating
systems (Android, iOS) are a plus. Must be able to
comprehend and synthesize information and translate into
technical solutions. Must have good written and verbal
communication skills and be willing and able to work both
individually and in teams as needed.

 

Education

BS Degree or higher in computer science / computer
engineering preferred. Exceptional applicants with other
degrees (e.g., information systems, applied math) or 5+
years of experience and a strong track record of past
performance will also be considered.

 

This position requires the applicant to obtain and
maintain a DoD Clearance.

Benefits:

To learn more about the Benefits offered by Progeny
Systems, including a minimum $1,000 sign-on bonus for all
new hires, please visit our website at http://
www.progeny.net/careers.

About Progeny Systems

Progeny Systems is a privately held, high-tech small
business that provides premium systems, services, and
products for the Department of Defense, government
agencies and commercial clients. We are a technology
leader in numerous areas including: technology insertion;
acoustic sensors; signal processing; combat systems;
torpedoes; cyber security; biometrics; knowledge
management; undersea vehicles; open architecture;
electromagnetic maneuver warfare; electronics packaging;
and image/video processing/analysis.

As a small business, Progeny Systems is a participant in
the Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR) and Small
Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs. Progeny
Systems has a proven track record of transitioning
numerous SBIR contract awards into full-scale production,
and has also successfully competed with large defense
corporations.  Progeny System's ability to leverage
flexibility, rapid turnaround, customer responsiveness,
and encourage an environment for experimental research
has been critical to our success in developing, producing
and supporting numerous mission critical national defense
systems.

Progeny has provided highly complex products/programs to
the United States Government in collaboration with the
following agencies, among others:

-       United States Navy

-       United States Air Force

-       United States Army         

-       Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA)

-       National Aeronautics & Space Administration
(NASA)

 
                    Apply To This Job


 

 

[poweredby]

