Skip to Main Content

  * UT Direct Help
  * Logoff
  * UT Direct Home
  * Search UT Direct

Select the type of search to perform: [any word    ] Enter a search term:
[                                                                        ]
[search]
Job Search
My Application
Jobs I've Applied For
Resources

The University of Texas at Austin Job Posting

UT Austin H.R.S. Logo
Return to job search
Share
Start application process
Switch to mobile view

Research Associate - R and D Data Scientist

Hiring department Applied Research Lab
Monthly salary $7,083 - $9,166+ depending on qualifications
Hours per week 40.00 Standard from 800AM to 500PM
Posting number 16-12-20-01-0708
Job Status Open
FLSA status Exempt
Earliest Start Date Immediately
Position Duration Funding expected to continue
Position open to all applicants
Location Austin - J. J. Pickle Research Campus (North Austin)
Number of vacancies 2
General Notes

None provided

Required Application Materials

  * A Resume is required in order to apply
  * A Letter of Interest is required in order to apply.
  * A List of 3 References is required in order to apply.

Note: The following additional materials are also required for consideration:
Trancripts. References must be former employers. Instructions for submission of
these materials will be provided at the time the online application has been
completed.

Additional Information

Purpose

Research, development, and evaluation of space weather data and phenomenology
and the impact on terrestrial systems.

Essential Functions

Research, development, and implementation of customer focused space weather
remediation systems. Documentation of implemented schema. Provide technical and
research focused leadership and participate in a small, dynamic team of
customer focused scientists.

Marginal/Incidental functions

Other related functions as assigned.

Required qualifications

PhD in Physics, Electrical Engineering, Space Sciences or Aerospace
Engineering. Demonstrated experience in delivering customer focused research/
development. Demonstrate the ability to independently develop/implement new
strategies for evaluating customer needs, the state of the art research, and a
focused plan to deliver solutions. Must have experience with one of: Python/
Fortran/C++/Java/Matlab/Mathematica. Dynamic skill set, willing to work with
new technologies, be highly organized and capable of planning and coordinating
multiple tasks and managing their time. The position will require attention to
detail, effective problem solving skills and excellent judgment. Ability to
work independently with sensitive and confidential information, maintain a
professional demeanor, work as a team member without daily supervision and
effectively communicate with diverse groups of clients. Work under pressure/
accept supervision. Regular/punctual attendance. US Citizen. Applicant selected
will be subject to a government security investigation and must meet
eligibility requirements for access to classified information at the level
appropriate to the project requirements of the position.

Preferred Qualifications

Experience with Fortran, C++, C Sharp, Matlab, Mathematica and/or ADA.

Working conditions

May work around standard office conditions Repetitive use of a keyboard at a
workstation Use of manual dexterity Some weekend, evening and holiday work.
Frequent use of manuals and books. Work in shared, windowless office space.
Some intrastate/interstate travel.

A criminal history background check will be required for finalist(s) under
consideration for this position.

The retirement plan for this position is Teacher Retirement System of Texas (
TRS), subject to the position being at least 20 hours per week and at least 135
days in length. This position has the option to elect the Optional Retirement
Program (ORP) instead of TRS, subject to the position being 40 hours per week
and at least 135 days in length.

The University of Texas at Austin, as an equal opportunity/affirmative action
employer, complies with all applicable federal and state laws regarding
nondiscrimination and affirmative action. The University is committed to a
policy of equal opportunity for all persons and does not discriminate on the
basis of race, color, national origin, age, marital status, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, religion, or
veteran status in employment, educational programs and activities, and
admissions.

If hired, you will be required to complete the federal Employment Eligibility
Verification form, I-9. You will be required to present acceptable, original
documents to prove your identity and authorization to work in the United
States. Information from the documents will be submitted to the federal
E-Verify system for verification. Documents must be presented no later than the
third day of employment. Failure to do so will result in dismissal.

UT Austin is a Tobacco-free Campus

Return to job search
Start application process

Return to top of page

  * 

Comments to: Human Resource Service CenterUT Job CentralFor questions or
concerns regarding equal opportunity only, contact Office for Inclusion and
EquityIf hired, you will be required to complete the federal Employment
Eligibility Verification form, I-9. You will be required to present acceptable,
original documents to prove your identity and authorization to work in the
United States. Information from the documents will be submitted to the federal
E-Verify system for verification. Documents need to be presented no later than
the third day of employment. Failure to do so will result in dismissal.The open
carry of handguns on campus is prohibited by law. For questions concerning
concealed carry of handguns on campus, please refer to the University Handbook
of Operating Procedures, HOP 8-1060.For more job information, call the Human
Resource Service Center at (512) 471-4772, or toll-free at (800) 687-4178.

Sitemap

  * Academics
  * Administrative Applications
  * Admissions
  * Around Campus
  * Colleges, Schools and Academic Units

  * Computing and Technology
  * Directories and Offices
  * Employment and Careers
  * Finances
  * Graduation

  * Instruction
  * News, Events and Calendars
  * Personal Info
  * Research
  * Working at UT

the university of texas at austin
The University of Texas at Austin
1 University Station
Austin, Texas 78712

  * UT Direct Comments
  * Web Privacy Policy
  * Web Accessibility

?The University of Texas at Austin 2011
