Skip Navigation
  Sign In to access application status,
  saved documents and Job Search Agents
  Job Details
  View Job Cart (0) Send This Job to a Friend 
  View My Account
  QUANTITATIVE ANALYST

  Function: Investment Research  Job ID #: 520

  Department: LDI and Solutions  Position Type: 
                                 Full-Time

  Education Required: PhD        Location: 
  preferred                      Boston, MA

  Experience Required: See Job
  Qualifications


  
         Share on      Share on      Share on
  Share: Facebook!     LinkedIn!     Twitter! 
         Facebook      LinkedIn      Twitter
                                                 
  [Apply Now]                   [Add to Job Cart]
  Position Description

  Loomis Sayles is currently looking for two
  motivated individuals with a strong, advanced
  academic background focused in quantitative
  areas such as engineering, computer science,
  mathematics, finance, etc. to join the LDI &
  Solutions group as an analyst.  The LDI &
  Solutions group is an integrated part of the
  firm and plays a critical role across three
  dimensions:,
  ? Liability driven investing
  ? Smart beta products research and management
  ? Strategic asset allocation research

  Responsibilities:
  ? Supporting and growing firm capabilities in
  Liability driven investing by building new and/
  or  maintaining existing infrastructure
  ? Coordinating with various stake holders,
  Investment teams, QRRA and, Technology to
  develop and launch Smart beta products
  ? Maintaining and building infrastructure to
  validate, implement and monitor signals
  underlying  Smart beta products
  ? Write white papers, journal articles,
  marketing material to establish firms thought
  leadership in  LDI, Smart beta products and
  Strategic asset allocation
  ? Keeping abreast of industry changes and
  academic research
  ? Contribute to achieve team?s objective of
  delivering high quality work in a collegial
  work  environment

  Qualifications

  ? PhD or Masters in a quantitatively oriented
  academic discipline is required
  ? Strong mathematical reasoning skills
  ? Strong interest in Financial markets and
  Investment management industry
  ? Ability to communicate complex mathematical
  ideas in a clear and succinct way
  ? Proficiency in computer programming (with a
  preference for MATLAB skills)
  ? Highly motivated, detail-oriented, and able
  to effectively communicate across different
   audiences
  ? 0 ? 3 years of work experience. Research work
  while pursuing PhD will be considered as work
   experience

  We are an Equal Opportunity Employer and do not
  discriminate against any employee or applicant
  for employment because of race, color, sex,
  age, national origin, religion, sexual
  orientation, gender identity, status as a
  veteran, and basis of disability or any other
  federal, state or local protected class.

  Move   Back to top
  Up
  View Job Cart (0) Send This Job to a Friend 
  View My Account
jobDetails
