Logo
Create a Profile|Log In
   Close
 Yes No
 
Show Details
At least one job must be selected in order to apply. Apply Now

Terms of use


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Add Add to Saved Jobs
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Back
Position Details

Req ID:                    req2703

Position Title:            Director of Data Analysis and Institutional
                           Reporting

Position Type:             Staff Full-Time

OSU Campus:                OSU-Oklahoma City

Department:                ACADEMIC EFFECTIVENESS

Location Address:          
                           Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
                           United States

Hiring Supervisor and      Lisa Dillon
Contact Info:

Hiring Range:              47,476.00 - 47,476.00, Salary
(Contingent upon available
funding):

Work Schedule:             Monday - Friday

Job Summary:               The Director of Data Analysis and Institutional
                           Reporting (DAIR) supports the institution?s
                           initiatives by analyzing data and developing
                           appropriate analytical findings, projections and
                           trends for use in institutional planning and
                           evaluation.  In addition, the Director of DAIR
                           prepares external reports for the campus such as the
                           Unitized Data System (UDS), the Integrated
                           Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS), and the
                           National Student Clearinghouse.

                            

                           Essential Job Functions:

                           1. Support the college?s initiatives, analyze data
                           and develop appropriate analytical findings,
                           projections and trends for use in institutional
                           planning, evaluation and improvement.

                           2. Prepare external reports including the Unitized
                           Data System (UDS), the Integrated Postsecondary
                           Education Data System (IPEDS), the National Student
                           Clearinghouse, and other reports as required by
                           accreditors, state, and federal entities.

                           3. Collaborate with Information Technology to
                           develop and maintain the data warehouse.

                           4. Collaborate with all campus units to support data
                           gathering, analysis, presentation of results, and
                           data-based decision making.

                           5. Participate (as a presenter or attendee) in a
                           wide variety of meetings that involve a range of
                           issues related to data analysis and institutional
                           improvement.

                           6. Research and compile data from a wide variety of
                           sources for the purpose of analyzing issues and
                           ensuring compliance with mandated requirements.

                           7. Develop and maintain online data resources.

                           8. Performs other related duties, as assigned, for
                           the purpose of ensuring an efficient and effective
                           work environment.

Special Instructions to    Resume and Cover Letter required for full
Applicants                 consideration

Education & Experience

Position Qualifications:   Education:

                           Bachelor's degree required in higher education,
                           social service, or related area.

                           Preferred Education:

                           Master's degree

                            

                           Work Experience:

                           Three years of experience analyzing and ensuring the
                           accuracy of data and developing reports, charts,
                           graphs and dashboards for a variety of audiences
                           preferably in higher education.

                            

                           Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:

                           Analytical Skills: analyze large amounts of data,
                           facts, figures and report findings to internal and
                           external stakeholders.

                           Critical Thinking: analyze data and come to new
                           conclusions based on the findings.

                           Communication Skills: strong oral and written
                           communication of complex ideas is necessary.

                           Attention to Detail: produce accurate data reports
                           and analysis.

                           Proficient in computer applications, including
                           databases, spreadsheets, report writing and data
                           visualization applications.

                           Work collaboratively to develop and maintain
                           high-quality institutional data initiatives.

                           Well-developed organizational and planning skills
                           and a high degree of initiative.

                           Evidences a history of demonstrating ethical and
                           professional behavior.

                            

                           Working Conditions/Physical Requirements:

                           Works in an office environment. Requires extensive
                           interaction with others, and use of computer.
                           Occasional travel may be required. 

                           The work environment and physical demands described
                           here are representative of those required by an
                           employee to perform the essential functions of this
                           job with or without reasonable accommodations.



                           
 

Oklahoma State University (OSU) strives to provide a safe study, work, and
living environment for its faculty, staff, volunteers and students. To support
this environment and comply with applicable laws and regulations, OSU conducts
pre-employment background checks on final candidates.  Offers of employment are
contingent upon the successful completion of a background check. The type of
background check conducted varies by position and can include, but is not
limited to, criminal (felony and misdemeanor) history, sex offender registry,
motor vehicle history, financial history, and/or education verification.
Background checks will be conducted when required by law or contract and when,
in the discretion of the university, it is reasonable and prudent to do so.


 Send to a Friend  Close
 [spinner]  Please wait...
 
 Email this Job Ad to your friend(s) by adding their email address(es) along
 with your details to the field below:

 *Separate each recipient email address with a comma.

 Recipient email address(es):
 [                    ] *

 Your First Name:
 [                    ] *

 Your Last Name:
 [                    ] *

 Select which language the email should be sent in.

 Language: []

 Send
 
   Close
 
 This Job Opening is already listed as one of your Interests. You cannot add
 the same Job Opening to your list of Interests more than one time.

 To see your list of Interests, navigate to the Application Status tab within
 My Profile
                                                                       [Close]

 
 Account Warning  Close
 [icon_alert]
 Log In Cancel OK
 
[okstate-lo]
