Refresh (0 sec) /careers/jobs/a0I1200000JXZt0EAH/?_fb_noscript=1
Verwijderen
We gebruiken cookies om inhoud en advertenties relevanter te maken en je een
veiligere ervaring te bieden. Als je op de website klikt of op de website
navigeert, ga je ermee akkoord dat we op en buiten Facebook informatie
verzamelen via cookies. Meer informatie, zoals over hoe je je instellingen kunt
aanpassen, vind je hier: cookiebeleid.

Facebook

E-mail of telefoon     Wachtwoord
[                    ] [                    ] [Aanmelden]
                       Account vergeten?
Registreren
*
 
Work at Facebook
 
Teams
 
Locations
 
University Students
 
Benefits
 
Facebook Life
 
Our Community

Data & Analytics

[                    ]
Menlo Park
Decision Scientist

(Menlo Park, CA)
Facebook's mission is to give people the power to share, and make the world
more open and connected. Through our growing family of apps and services, we're
building a different kind of company that helps billions of people around the
world connect and share what matters most to them. Whether we're creating new
products or helping a small business expand its reach, people at Facebook are
builders at heart. Our global teams are constantly iterating, solving problems,
and working together to make the world more open and accessible. Connecting the
world takes every one of us—and we're just getting started.
The Marketing team focuses on building Facebook brand presence, improving user
sentiment and product education. It is an exciting time at Facebook Marketing
because understanding people and connecting them to Facebook and our products
(and vice versa) is crucial for future growth. We are seeking a talented
analyst who thrives at the Intersection of data, marketing, product and
engineering. The successful candidate will support all things marketing at
Facebook to help us make better decisions. The ideal candidate will have strong
technical and analytical background – with a hunger to make significant
business impact by owning and driving business outcomes. Strong time management
and communication skills are critical, and a passion for Facebook is a must.

Responsibilities

  • Partner with marketing, research and product organizations to design,
    execute, measure and improve the impact of marketing efforts
  • Translate data insights into actions and recommendations that will drive
    brand sentiment, user growth and engagement, and marketing effectiveness
  • Develop quantitative analysis, ad hoc reports, and models to support
    marketing decision making. Analysis areas might include (but not limited
    to): retention, lifetime value, messaging, promotions, usage and
    engagement.
  • Produce visuals (charts, infographics) and presentations to clearly and
    effectively communicate findings to internal stakeholders.
  • Design and implement reporting dashboards that track key metrics and
    performance trends, and provide actionable insights to marketing
    leadership.
  • Analyze and maintain marketing metrics to identify cause-effect
    relationships between marketing actions and behavioral & attitudinal
    outcomes.

Minimum Qualifications

  • 5+ years of experience in data analysis.
  • Statistical and data analysis/modeling skills (e.g. significance testing,
    regression modeling, etc.)
  • Direct experience working with data-sets
  • Experience using SPSS, SAS, R, Matlab, or similar statistical packages
  • Experience with Python, Hadoop/Hive, & SQL required
  • Ability to thrive in an environment and collaborate with a different
    individuals and organizations
  • Communication skills.

Preferred Qualifications

  • Master's or Doctorate degree in psychology, statistics, economics,
    behavioral or social science or a related quantitative field
  • MBA or Management consulting experience

Apply
Facebook is proud to be an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action employer.
We do not discriminate based upon race, religion, color, national origin, sex
(including pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions), sexual
orientation, gender, gender identity, gender expression, transgender status,
sexual stereotypes, age, status as a protected veteran, status as an individual
with a disability, or other applicable legally protected characteristics.
If you need assistance or an accommodation due to a disability, you may contact
us at accommodations-ext@fb.com or you may call us at 1+650-308-7837.
Apply

Please limit to 3 applications.

Other positions in Product Marketing

  • Manager, Decision Science
    (Menlo Park)
  • Manager, Decision Science
    (Menlo Park)

Back to all jobs
Facebook © 2017Nederlands
Over ons
BedrijfsgegevensOnze Facebook-paginaRedactieVacatures
Instructies
HelpcentrumAlgemene informatie over privacyEen pagina makenMaak een advertentie
Ons beleid
gegevensbeleidVoorwaarden en beleidCookies
Meer informatiebronnen
Veiligheidscentrum voor familiesFacebook for BusinessFacebook voor
ontwikkelaars
