[logo_p6v4]                            Careers    |    Contact Verisk
HomeAbout VeriskConferencesPressInvestorsBlog

            Principal Data Scientist


             

                                                   [Submit Now!] 

            Job ID:  20161214-8688-EF       Company Name:  Verisk
                                              Insurance Solutions

            Description:

             

             

            If you?re looking for a career that transforms,
            inspires, challenges, and rewards you, then come join
            us! Verisk Analytics is a global supplier of risk
            assessment services and decision analytics for
            customers in a variety of markets, including
            insurance, healthcare, financial services, supply
            chain, and others. We?re a thriving public company
            with solid revenue growth and earnings and offices
            worldwide.  And we?re continually looking for ways to
            augment our existing markets and expand into new
            markets with excellent growth potential. At Verisk,
            you?ll be part of an organization that?s committed to
            serving the long-term interests of our stakeholders,
            including the communities where we operate.

            Position Summary

            Our Claims Analytics business is seeking an
            experienced Principal Data Scientist to serve as the
            lead technical resource in the conception and
            development of new predictive modeling initiatives.
             *Candidates could work out of either Jersey City,
            NJ, Lehi, UT, San Francisco, North Reading, MA or
            Columbia, SC office.

             Responsibilities

              * Mentor and train junior level analysts
              * Manage multiple projects or work streams through
                all the cycles of the analytical continuum of
                descriptive, diagnostic, predictive and
                prescriptive analytics.
              * Act as the resident subject matter expert in
                developing innovative analytic methods that
                result in a technically superior product and/or
                create a competitive advantage, as well as
                creating design requirements and project timeline
              * Act as the resident subject matter expert in
                developing innovative analytic methods that
                result in a technically superior product and/or
                create a competitive advantage, as well as
                creating design requirements and project timeline
              * Lead research, evaluation, and recommendation of
                internal and external data sources and coordinate
                with data resources
              * Serve as an enterprise innovation leader on data
                munging, variable creation, variable
                transformation, etc., as well as best-practices
                in the creation of analytic datasets
              * Serve as the leader in model development and
                validation analyses - from driving pragmatic
                practice of methods to devising novel solutions
                and diagnostic measures, to coaching and
                mentoring junior staff
              * Lead the development and execution of methods to
                address needed business diagnostics; review, and
                aid productization and deployment
              * Provide significant input to senior leadership
                team and Product Management on process
U.S. Job        improvement, implementation specifications and
Search          production testing
Login to      * Act as a leader to develop process and metrics to
Job Section     monitor model performance
My            * Review reports and make recommendations for
Candidate       needed model refits / enhancements
Home          * Provide significant input to Senior Management
Help with       Team and Product Management on implementation
Job             specifications and production testing
Application   * Research literature to stay current on technical
Non-U.S.        methods to solve specific problems
Job Search
Careers     Requirements
Overview
              * Graduate degree (M.S. required, Ph.D. preferred)
                in a quantitative discipline
              * 6+ years professional experience building
                predictive and descriptive models
              * Exposure to the property & casualty industry is
                desirable, and experience with medical, clinical,
                fraud & abuse and pharmacy data analytics is a
                plus
              * Ability to lead multiple projects from model
                design to deployment
              * Expertise in diverse statistical and data mining
                techniques (e.g. - GLM/Regression, Boosting,
                Random Forest, Trees, Clustering, PCA, SVM, text
                mining, social network analysis etc.)
              * Expertise in statistical packages in Spark
                ML-Lib, Python, R, or SAS
              * Strong ability to program in Python, Spark,
                Scala, R, or SAS
              * Extensive experience working with large datasets
                in RDBMs and interactive SQL programming skills
                are a must
              * Experience with Big Data technologies like
                Hadoop, Spark, Hive, NoSQL, etc., and Cloud
                technologies (AWS, Azure, etc.) is highly
                desirable
              * Demonstrate Subject Matter Expertise in several
                advanced data science and technological fields 

            We offer an excellent compensation package. Our
            benefits package is competitive and includes full
            healthcare options, a 401(k) plan, and a generous
            Paid-Time-Off program.

            All members of the Verisk Analytics Family of
            Companies are equal opportunity employers.  All
            qualified applicants will receive consideration for
            employment without regard to race, color, religion,
            sex, national origin, disability, protected veteran
            status, or any other legally protected
            classification.

             #LI-EF1

             

             
            
            Requirements:

            
            Expertise   Scientific
            Education   Masters (or equivalent work experience)
            Job Type    Full Time
            Location    SC-Columbia, NJ-Jersey City, CA-San
                        Francisco, UT-Lehi, MA-North Reading
            Years of    5-8 Years
            Experience
            

                                     [Refer This Job to a Friend]

                                                   [Submit Now!] 


                            [Return to Job List]



            All members of the Verisk Analytics family of
            companies are equal opportunity employers. We
            consider all qualified applicants for employment
            without regard to race, religion, color, national
            origin, citizenship, sex, gender identity and/or
            expression, sexual orientation, veteran's status, age
            or disability.

                     Privacy PolicyConditions of UseVerisk Analytics Trademarks
