                                  [previsor]
Research Scientist

Job Title: Research Scientist

Job Type:  Full-Time

Location:  Atlanta or Minneapolis, GA

                           [Submit Your Application]
                              [Send to a Friend]
                            [Printer Friendly Page]
 
Job Description:

POSITION OVERVIEW

The Research Scientist is critical to the Content and Strategy
team and is responsible for working on multiple deliverables
while coordinating with various internal departments, external
clients (potentially) and maintaining a high level of customer
service and quality. Assignments can include various projects
focused on the development and validation of new, leading edge
assessments, the revision and management of existing
assessments, conducting research related to assessment and
selection, and designing new methodologies to support and
maintain content.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTABILITIES

- Lead and contribute to the ongoing development of assessment
solutions, intellectual property and best practices by analyzing
and validating existing and new assessment items/tests.
- Identify opportunities for improving, collecting and analyzing
data, and developing assessment content.
- Serve as an internal subject matter expert, providing support
to team members on solutions, especially related to the
development and validation of assessment solutions.
- Conduct research in the areas of employment assessment,
selection, and development.
- Write and revise technical documents to support assessments
and solutions.
- Assist in product upgrades.

TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE & SKILL REQUIREMENTS

Required when entering position:
- Proficient in SPSS use
- Ability to use computers & software (Word, Excel, Internet,
PPT)
- Knowledgeable in assessment development processes & studies

EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS

Requirements:
- PhD or ABD in I/O Psychology or related area
- 1-3 years experience in leading or participating in the
development of a broad base of assessments (personality,
cognitive ability, hard skills, biodata, situational judgment,
simulations, etc.)
- 1-3 years experience in technical writing/documentation
relevant to assessment development
- Experience in presenting information to groups

TO APPLY

1. Please submit your resume to this site.
2. Take the following 25-minute assessment: https://
www.select2perform.com/default?action=url&key=e126b863205b98

                   Powered By:Ceridian Recruiting Solutions
