[logo_p6v4]                            Careers    |    Contact Verisk
HomeAbout VeriskConferencesPressInvestorsBlog

            Senior Data Scientist


             

                                                      [Submit Now!] 

            Job ID:  20161212-8675-EF          Company Name:  Verisk
                                                 Insurance Solutions

            Description:

             

             

            If you?re looking for a career that transforms,
            inspires, challenges, and rewards you, then come join
            us! Verisk Analytics is a global supplier of risk
            assessment services and decision analytics for customers
            in a variety of markets, including insurance,
            healthcare, financial services, supply chain, and
            others. We?re a thriving public company with solid
            revenue growth and earnings and offices worldwide.  And
            we?re continually looking for ways to augment our
            existing markets and expand into new markets with
            excellent growth potential. At Verisk, you?ll be part of
            an organization that?s committed to serving the
            long-term interests of our stakeholders, including the
            communities where we operate.

            Position Summary

            Our Claims Analytics business is seeking an experienced
            Senior Data Scientist to serve as a technical resource
            in the conception and development of new predictive
            modeling initiatives.  *Candidates could work out of
            either Jersey City, NJ, Lehi, UT, San Francisco, North
            Reading, MA or Columbia, SC office.

             Responsibilities

              * Suggest and develop innovative analytic methods that
                result in a technically superior product and/or
                create a competitive advantage, as well as meet
                design requirements and project timeline
              * Research, evaluate, and recommend internal and
                external data sources and coordinate with data
                resources
              * Serve as the senior technical person on data
                cleansing, variable creation, variable
                transformation, etc., as well as best-practices in
                the creation of analytic datasets
              * Serve as the consummate technical person in model
                development and validation analyses - from driving
                pragmatic practice of methods to devising novel
                solutions and diagnostic measures, to coaching and
                mentoring junior staff
              * Act as senior technical person in development and
                execution of methods to address needed business
                diagnostics; review, and aid productization and
                deployment
              * Provide significant input to Product Management on
                implementation specifications and production testing
U.S. Job      * Act as senior technical person to develop process
Search          and metrics to monitor model performance
Login to
Job Section   * Review reports and make recommendations for needed
My              model refits / enhancements
Candidate     * Keep abreast of business trends / product needs
Home          * Research literature to stay current on technical
Help with       methods to solve specific problems
Job
Application  
Non-U.S.
Job Search  Requirements
Careers
Overview      * Graduate degree (M.S. required, Ph.D. preferred) in
                a quantitative discipline
              * 2+ years professional experience building predictive
                and descriptive models
              * Exposure to the property & casualty industry is
                desirable, and experience with medical, clinical,
                fraud & abuse and pharmacy data analytics is a big
                plus                                                
              * Experience, and expertise in diverse statistical and
                data mining techniques (e.g. - GLM/Regression,
                Boosting, Random Forest, Trees, Clustering, PCA,
                SVM, text mining, social network analysis etc.)
              * Demonstrated proficiency with statistical packages
                in Spark ML-Lib, Python, R, or SAS is a must
              * Ability to program in Python, Spark, Scala, R, or
                SAS is highly desirable
              * Understanding of RDBMs and interactive SQL
                programming skills are a must
              * Experience with Big Data technologies like Hadoop,
                Spark, Hive, NoSQL, etc., and Cloud technologies
                (AWS, Azure, etc.) is highly desirable
              * Aptitude for picking up new technologies is expected

            We offer an excellent compensation package. Our benefits
            package is competitive and includes full healthcare
            options, a 401(k) plan, and a generous Paid-Time-Off
            program.

            All members of the Verisk Analytics Family of Companies
            are equal opportunity employers.  All qualified
            applicants will receive consideration for employment
            without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national
            origin, disability, protected veteran status, or any
            other legally protected classification.

             #LI-EF1
            
            Requirements:

            
            Expertise   Scientific
            Education   Masters (or equivalent work experience)
            Job Type    Full Time
            Location    SC-Columbia, NJ-Jersey City, CA-San
                        Francisco, UT-Lehi, MA-North Reading
            Years of    3-5 Years
            Experience
            

                                        [Refer This Job to a Friend]

                                                      [Submit Now!] 


                              [Return to Job List]



            All members of the Verisk Analytics family of companies
            are equal opportunity employers. We consider all
            qualified applicants for employment without regard to
            race, religion, color, national origin, citizenship,
            sex, gender identity and/or expression, sexual
            orientation, veteran's status, age or disability.

                     Privacy PolicyConditions of UseVerisk Analytics Trademarks
