  • North American Careers Home
  • Careers At Bendix
  • Careers At KBC
  • Careers At NYAB
  • Current Opportunities
  • Contact Us

  • Search Current Openings
  • Update Your Profile
  • Create a Job Agent
  • Update Job Agent
  • Recruiting Agency Login
  • Event Calendar

 

Your user session will timeout in 5 minutes. Please click OK to continue with
your application.

Database Developer, Big Data

Tracking Code
    13166
Job Description
   
     

    This position is responsible for the design, development and testing of
    databases for software applications focusing on machine data collected from
    fleets of complex machines. They will work within a software development
    team and with DBAs, Data Scientists, Software Engineers and Engineering
    Subject Matter Experts as a database consultant in support of developing
    new databases or enhancing existing databases.

     

    Essential Functions:

     

      □ Manage SQL Server databases through multiple product lifecycle
        environments, from development to production systems
      □ Assist in the design of data models and physical databases, data
        dictionaries and schemas
      □ Install, configure and maintain multiple MS SQL Instances
      □ Install, upgrade and test database hardware and software
      □ Apply data modeling techniques to ensure development and implementation
        support efforts meet integration and performance expectations
      □ Monitor the system health and performance, to ensure high levels of
        performance, availability and security
      □ Assist with managing database size and scalability
      □ Conduct performance analysis related to database storage, CPU and
        Memory
      □ Provide information by collecting, analyzing, and summarizing database
        performance and trends
      □ Solve and correct issues in real time, providing problem resolution
        end-to-end
      □ Assist developers with the creation and maintenance of robust, scalable
        database code
      □ Enforce SQL standards and guidelines
      □ Implementation and support of SQL Server Clustering
      □ Participate in 24x7 on call support rotation
      □ Perform tuning and optimization of stored procedures, Transact SQL, and
        SQL queries
      □ Design, implement and troubleshooting backup/recovery for SQL Server
        databases
      □ Perform Disaster Recovery planning and execution with database
        restoration in alternate locations

     

Required Skills
   
     

      □ Familiarity with the Hadoop ecosystem including HBase, Impala, and Hive
      □ Familiarity with MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, or Oracle
      □ Familiarity with software development lifecycle including source code
        control and agile development techniques
      □ Coding skills with Java, Scala, and Python
      □ Strong interpersonal, oral, and written communication skills required.
      □ Possesses excellent presentation skills.
      □ Customer focused and team player.
Required Experience
   
     

      □ Experience with data warehouse development and constructing SQL and MDX
        queries.
      □ Experience developing models with VBA, Base SAS, SAS Enterprise Miner,
        R or similar programming language.
      □ Experience creating dashboards and visualizations with Tablueau,
        QlikView or similar data visualization tool.
      □ Strong understanding of probability, statistics and six sigma concepts.
      □ 5 years in database design and gathering database requirements
      □ 5 years importing, merging and exporting data via ETL processes, CSV
        files, etc.
      □ 5 years of writing complex SQL
      □ 5 years developing and testing stored procedures, table views,
        triggers, etc.

    Education:

      □ Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science
      □ Master’s Degree, a plus.
      □ 5+ years’ experience in big data centered role

     

    Position Requirements:

     

      □ Must be capable of traveling to customers, meetings, manufacturing
        plants and corporate headquarters up to 25% of the time.

     

    *LI-TA1

Job Location
    Santa Ana, California, United States
Position Type
    Full-Time/Regular

Apply

[New Resume/CV]

[Existing Resume/CV]

Share

Return To Job Listings 


[marken_kb_] © 2017 Knorr-Bremse - All Rights Reserved
