Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Machine Learning- Graduate Intern (Summer)

Machine Learning- Graduate Intern (Summer)

Requisition ID 
    20015287

Job Locations 
    US-NC-Cary

Category 
    Intern/Entry-Level

Visa Sponsorship 
    No

Travel Requirements 
    ..

Overview

Germany SAS

 

The Machine Learning algorithms team at SAS has a graduate summer
internship available for highly qualified, motivated, and innovative students.

The SAS Intern Program will allow you to partner with leadership to work on
business-critical projects resulting in an immediate impact to SAS and our
customers. You could be contributing code to our industry-leading software or
ensuring the quality of our products for our Fortune 100 customers – the sky is
the limit!

 

The graduate internship is open to doctoral and master candidates in applied
mathematics, computer science, electrical and computer engineering, operations
research, statistics and related graduate departments, the internship offers
the opportunity to assist in the research and development of new machine
learning algorithms in the high performance world. You will contribute to
activities such as literature review, research, development, publish at top
level research conferences, and prepare demos for business oriented ML
conferences. You will work closely with professional machine learning experts
who develop software used in many areas throughout the world.

 

Essential

  • Ph.D student in applied mathematics, computer science, electrical and
    computer engineering, operations research, statistics, and related graduate
    departments
  • Coursework in machine learning, data mining, statistical modeling.
  • Demonstrated experience in machine learning algorithms beyond the
    coursework.
  • Demonstrated programming experience in languages like C, C++, Python

Preferences

  • Research experience in computational aspects of machine learning
    algorithms.
  • Research and development experience in active learning and online learning
    algorithms.
  • Knowledge in exploratory data analysis, feature engineering, predictive
    modelling and visualization techniques.
  • Experience in distributed/parallel algorithms.

 

About SAS:
SAS believes in the whole employee experience. Meaningful work. Empowerment to
make a difference that changes people’s lives. Dynamic work environments that
foster innovation. And an award-winning culture that makes it all possible. We
believe great ideas can come from anywhere. Whether you're a university
recruit, or an experienced professional ready for the next big challenge, SAS
brings perks, passion, and the potential to grow. No limits.

Want to stay up to date on SAS culture, products and jobs? Follow us on
LinkedIn LinkedIn Logo

 

 

Additional Information
To qualify, applicants must be legally authorized to work in the United
States. SAS is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will
receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion,
sex, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status or any other
characteristic protected by law. The level of this position will be determined
based on the applicant's education, skills and experience. Resumes may be
considered in the order they are received. SAS employees performing certain job
functions may require access to technology or software subject to export or
import regulations. To comply with these regulations, SAS may obtain
nationality or citizenship information from applicants for employment. SAS
collects this information solely for trade law compliance purposes and does not
use it to discriminate unfairly in the hiring process.

Options

 
Apply Now!Apply
Share
 
Share with a FriendRefer
Share with your networks
[back]Back to Start/Home Page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

