Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Software Engineer (Machine Learning, NLP, Computer Vision)

Software Engineer (Machine Learning, NLP, Computer Vision)

Location 
    US-CO-Longmont

Client 
    Boulder Labs

More information about this job:

Company Description:

About Us:

Boulder Labs is a Colorado-grown (founded in 1997 and located just north of
Boulder) software engineering firm focused on using new research and
open-source tools to deliver practical solutions to real-world problems. Our
specialties include machine learning, natural language processing, computer
vision, and embedded systems. With a wide-ranging portfolio of projects, we
value creativity, passion and intelligence. Our work culture encourages these
traits in a highly collaborative, fast-paced professionally casual environment
with a heavy emphasis on work-life balance.

What You Will Do:

We are looking for an enthusiastic Software Engineer to join our team. You will
have the opportunity to learn, work on diverse projects, and grow your
technical skill set while working with a group of dedicated Boulder Labs
teammates. One employee characterized their 10 years at Boulder Labs as a
series of digging deep on cutting-edge, diverse, and challenging software
development projects. ?I'm constantly learning, growing, pushing myself and
expanding my technical skill set...it's great!?

 

 

Who You Are:

About You:

You have experience working in and enjoy a small company environment where you
can wear multiple hats while staying organized and efficient. Your verbal and
written communication skills are well honed. You are able to prioritize
deadlines while keeping a focus on ensuring project requirements are met.

 

What You Bring To The Table:

  * Experience in backend or systems software development, with background in
    C++, Boost libraries, Python and Linux.
  * Experience with large scale/complex software design.
  * Experience with version control systems.
  * Experience in an Agile environment.
  * Analytical, inquisitive, adaptable, think outside the box.
  * Work well with a passionate team of engineers. Bring a collaborative and
    self-directed attitude to the job.
  * Bachelor?s degree in Computer Science.

 

A Few Nice-To-Haves:

  * Machine learning and data science.
  * Computer vision.
  * Natural language processing.
  * Distributed systems and cloud computing.
  * Front-end development.
  * Hardware experience.

 

About The Benefits:

  * Work-life balance and flexible work schedules.
  * Generous monthly cash stipend for employee insurance coverage.
  * 401K plan.
  * 24 days per year of PTO.
  * 2 weeks paid maternity/paternity leave.
  * Quarterly profit sharing.
  * $1000 Boulder Labs corporate charitable donation in your name.

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
#Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

