Skip to Main Content
University of Pittsburgh
PittSource

  • Home
  • Search Jobs
  • Create Account
  • Log In
  • Help

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

 Search Opportunities:

Executive

Faculty

Research Associate

Staff - Regular

Staff - Temporary

Student - All Opportunities

Student - FWS* Required

Student - FWS* Not Required

Union

 ^*FWS - Federal Work Study

 How to Apply & FAQ's

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

 2013 AARP Best Employers Vibrant Pittsburgh

 Connect with us...

   Facebook  Twitter

Statistical Genetics Analyst

If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the
Bookmark link.  If you would like to print a copy of this position for your
records, click on the Print Preview link.

If you need assistance completing your application or applying for a job, call
our applicant help line at (412) 624-7000 Option #3

Bookmark this Posting | Print Preview | Apply for this Job

Position Information

Position Information

  Date Posted   12/14/2016
 Working Title  Statistical Genetics Analyst
      Job       Research V
Classification
Department Name 31228-Dent Med-Oral Biology
   Job Type     Staff
Position Number 0134199
 Hiring Range   TBD based on qualifications
                This position is for a statistical genetics analyst to perform
                genetic analyses at the Center for Craniofacial and Dental
                Genetics (CCDG). This analyst will be responsible for
                bioinformatics and statistical analyses of complex genetics
                data, including a variety of craniofacial and dental
                phenotypes, and extensive genotyping (e.g. GWAS, SNP panel, and
                sequence) data. Candidate will be responsible for developing
                analysis models, cleaning data prior to analysis, conducting
                analyses, and summarizing results for the CCDG team, for the
                PI’s, and for publication. This position includes frequent
   Position     contact with the PIs, data management personnel, internal
  Description   faculty and staff, and external collaborators at a variety of
                US and international sites. This individual must be able to
                exercise confidentiality, discretion, and a professional
                demeanor.
                A qualified candidate must be able to work independently and
                have careful attention to detail. Strong programming skills and
                familiarity with bioinformatics tools are required. Familiarity
                with genetics research and/or dental/craniofacial research is a
                plus. Experience with Progeny, Plink, R or other comparable
                systems and programs is also a plus.

   Education    Master's
   Required
Minimum Related
  Experience    5-6 years experience
Level Required
                Master’s degree in genetics, statistics, epidemiology or
  Additional    related field is required, or an equivalent amount of education
Education and/  and experience. At least five years’ experience in a research
 or Experience  setting with statistical genetic analyses and general
 Essential to   biostatistical analyses conducted in complex human data; or an
 the Position   equivalent amount of education and experience.

   Required
   Licenses/
Certifications
                The following PA Act 153 clearances and background checks may
     Child      be required prior to commencement of employment and as a
  Protection    condition of continued employment: PA State Police Criminal
  Clearances    Record Check, FBI Criminal Record Check, PA Child Abuse History
                Clearance.

  Assignment    Regular, Full-Time
   Category
Percent Effort  100
Scheduled Work  8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
     Hours
If Varied Work
   Schedule,
Please Specify
 If Part Time,
Actual Standard
 Weekly Hours
    Campus      Pittsburgh
                The University offers an excellent comprehensive benefits
                package for all full-time and part-time regular employees
                including:
                • Education benefits and a retirement plan with employer match
                • Group medical insurance, life insurance, and optional vision
  University    and dental insurance
   Benefits     • Free transit service within Allegheny County for employees of
                the Oakland campus (Port Authority Transit)
                • Time off benefits including vacation, sick and personal time

                For more information regarding the University’s benefits
                package, please visit www.hr.pitt.edu/benefits

Supplemental Questions

Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*).

 1. * Do you have a master's degree or higher or will have completed one by the
    end of this current term?
      □ Yes
      □ No
 2. * How did you hear of this position at the University of Pittsburgh?
      □ Career Development Center (CDC)
      □ Chronicle of Higher Education
      □ Commonwealth Workforce Development System (Formerly PA CareerLink)
      □ Craigslist.org
      □ Currently a University Employee
      □ Dice.com
      □ Monster.com
      □ Pitt Career Services
      □ Pittsburgh Post Gazette
      □ Pittsburgh Technology Council
      □ PittSource Search
      □ Referral (Friend, University Employee, etc.), please specify below
      □ StudentAffairs.com
      □ Higheredjobs.com
      □ Indeed.com
      □ Internet Search
      □ Other: (Please specify below)
 3. * Please specify from above (if applicable):

    (Open Ended Question)

Applicant Documents

Required Documents

 1. Cover Letter
 2. Resume

Optional Documents

  • Office of Human Resources

    100 Craig Hall
    Pittsburgh, PA 15260
    412-624-7000

     
    Submit an Online Question
  • HR Quick Links

    Benefits
    Careers
    Compensation & Classification
    Diversity
    Temporary Employment
    Why Work at Pitt
    Work/Life
  • Resources

    Campus Safety
    E-Verify
    Job Family Descriptions
    Map and Directions
    Required Workplace Postings
    Site Security

                         University of Pittsburgh Logo

    The University of Pittsburgh is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity
Employer and values equality of opportunity, human dignity and diversity. EEO/
                             AA/M/F/Vets/Disabled
                                                                               
