Your user session will timeout in 5 minutes. Please click OK to continue with
your application.

Data Scientist

Tracking Code
    3460
Job Description
   
    LMI Data Scientist

    At LMI, we work with a broad range of government agencies with our primary
    goal being to help those agencies improve how they operate. As a
    not-for-profit organization, LMI is a trusted advisor to the
    government?free from commercial or political bias and dedicated to the
    mission of advancing government management. We have a number of
    opportunities where you will take the massive data sets our customers have
    and make sense of what they are and what can be done using the data. We see
    data science as an interdisciplinary field in which questions posed within
    a knowledge domain are answered by combining methodologies from statistics,
    machine learning, and computer programming. Large data sets are acquired
    and placed in big data storage systems where they are analyzed to create
    dynamic models that predict results of future data or discover patterns in
    past data.

     

    PRINCIPAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

    As an LMI Data Scientist, you will leverage your curiosity and problem
    solving skills to explore and discover answers contained within LMI data
    sets and those of its clients. You will take large data sets with damaged
    or missing data and use statistics to discover patterns of past data and
    machine learning to make predictions with future data. You will turn this
    information into knowledge that can be used by LMI and its clients.

     

    KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES

    A successful candidate will be capable of the following:

     

      + Possess an understanding of some of the Knowledge Domains that interest
        LMI: Economics, Energy & Environment, Health Information, Information
        Systems, Intelligence Programs, Logistics Systems, Organizational &
        Human Capital Information, Supply Chain, and Transportation Systems. If
        you have knowledge of other domains and not these, tell us about them.
      + Whether for descriptive or predictive purposes, mathematics and
        statistics are a necessary part of your work at LMI. Be prepared to
        explain your use of these tools.
      + You must have the ability to use at least two programming languages
        that you use to describe to a computer the processes needed to solve a
        problem. The languages are irrelevant, but the more languages you know
        the better.
      + You know when and how to apply machine learning tools to create static
        and dynamic models that can make accurate predictions using future
        data.
      + You possess the ability to extract data from its current context,
        transform it from a less useable state to a more useable state, and
        place it in a new data set where it can be analyzed.
      + You are comfortable work as a team member and individual contributor.

     

    Surprise us and have knowledge of some of these:

     

      + You can create non-linear, stochastic computer simulations to model
        potential outcomes involving social and environment interactions.
      + You have experience with any high performance computing environment.
      + You have the ability to present and explain analytic findings to people
        at all levels of an organization using current information
        visualization methodologies.
      + You understand how to examine systems of networks to unveil patterns
        and discover key entities tied together across geography, people,
        knowledge, organizations, and tasks.

     

    EDUCATION

    Are you self-taught or formally educated? In either case, tell us how you
    learned the skills of a data scientist and how you would apply those
    learning methodologies to your future education.

    US citizenship is required. Individuals who possess a TS/SCI clearance with
    Full-Scope Polygraph are strongly desired. Will consider candidates at
    other clearance levels.

     

     

Job Location
    McLean, Virginia, United States
Position Type
    Full-Time/Regular

Apply

[New Resume/CV]

[Existing Resume/CV]

Connect

Who do you know at
LMI

Share

Return To Job Listings 

