Charles Schwab Corporation

  * Our Story
  * Work At Schwab
  * Community

  * Investor Relations
  * Governance
  * Press

 

  * Diversity
  * Grads and Students
  * Veterans
  * Women
  * Events
  * Job Search

  * Careers Home
  * > Job Details

Investment Research Analyst Intern

Apply Now    
Job ID:
1215-31582
Job Category:
Campus Programs/Internships
Relevant Work Experience:
No Work Experience
Current Licenses / Certifications:
None
Position Located In:
CO - Lone Tree, CA - San Francisco
Education:
HS/GED
Job Type:
Full Time

2017 Schwab Intern Academy

It is not often you get a chance to work with a company that has been
challenging the conventions of the industry for over 40 years. But that is what
you could be doing next summer!

Schwab?s mission is to help our clients create a better future for themselves,
their families, and their communities. It is summed up in our tagline ? Own
your tomorrow ? and it permeates everything we do.

Schwab Intern Academy is our centrally managed summer internship program for
juniors and rising seniors. The design of the program invites interns to engage
directly in Schwab?s culture of service, while challenging them with a blend of
learning programs, team-building activities, networking opportunities, and
enriching work projects. Features of our 2017 program include:

  * Business Track Project: Work with a Schwab organization that provides a
    meaningful and valuable experience to translate classroom learning into
    real business projects.
  * Intern Cohort Project: Partner with other interns to brainstorm, discuss
    learning experiences, and present solutions.
  * Learning Activities: Participate in facilitated classroom training, team
    discussions and events, individual assessments and activities, senior
    leader meetings, and on-the-job training.
  * Feedback Loop: Receive regular feedback from your manager, participate in
    career-related discussions, and provide your own feedback.
  * Strengths Application: Learn about yourself and how to apply your unique
    strengths, abilities, and goals to the work you do as part of Schwab?s
    ?strengths-based? culture.
  * Networking: Gain support by interacting with professionals across Schwab,
    including senior leaders, peers, and Schwab Intern Academy Alumni..

We look for students with:

  * Optimism and curiosity, who are inspired by a keen sense of purpose,
    awareness, and knowledge 
  * Adaptability and flexibility, who enjoy working through cross-functional
    partnerships and collaboration to achieve a common purpose
  * An innovative and questioning mindset, who constantly look for better ways
    to do things, have  a passion for service, and aim to exceed client
    expectations

Because interns are considered a primary pipeline for full-time opportunities,
every intern candidate must be eligible for full-time employment upon
graduation and must also meet the following requirements:

  * Enrolled in a current undergraduate program tracking to a bachelor?s degree
  * Plan to graduate between December 2017 and May/June 2018
  * Can work full time and on-site at Schwab during the 9-week program (June 12
    to August 11)
  * Have specific skills as needed by the hosting Business Track

Schwab is recognized as an industry leader, and our welcoming culture will
embrace your individuality and partner you with other like-minded and
solution-focused students. We will invest in your summer experience by
providing you direction and leadership for a robust and well-rounded
internship, as well as help you focus on a potential future career with Schwab.

Please Note: For the 2017 Schwab Intern Academy there will be multiple job
opportunities. We encourage you to apply for all positions for which you are
qualified and interested. Regardless of which opportunity you pursue, our goal
is to provide you with a consistent and unique experience ? one you won?t soon
forget!

Investment Research Analyst within Schwab Center for Financial Research

The Portfolio Analysis, Advice Tools and Policies team within the Schwab Center
for Financial Research works with outside advice vendors and Schwab's
internal business teams to help ensure high quality standards of advice are
met. The team ensures that portfolio evaluation, analysis and reporting tools
used by reps are accurate, relevant, and high-quality.  The team also provides
subject matter expertise across the firm on a broad range of topics including
portfolio analysis, asset classification and benchmarks, fund research,
financial planning, investing fundamentals, quantitative analysis and
performance evaluation.

Specific duties are:

  * Develop portfolio analytics to help explain various investment concepts and
    principles to clients and prospects in an intuitive manner
  * Research various digital investment tools, identify best practices, and
    develop a vision plan for enhancing Schwab?s currently available Advice
    Tools
  * Collaborate with other internal teams to prepare timely and relevant
    content (training, education, digital, articles, marketing collateral,
    white papers etc.) to help internal representatives and clients understand
    the broad range of investment topics available
  * Create a strong foundation for modern wealth management offering at Schwab
    by:
      + Analyzing multiple asset classes, benchmarks
      + Optimizing services, business processes and products to create a strong
        foundation for modern wealth management.
      + Provide expertise on new trends and innovation in product structures,
        asset allocation, rebalancing, behavior finance, forecasting,
        decision-making, and investment analysis
      + Other duties as assigned

What you have:

  * Understanding of global investment markets including an understanding of
    underlying economic, fundamental, behavioral and other factors
  * Understanding of economics, modern portfolio theory, and overall financial
    planning concepts
  * Excellent oral and written communication skills with a focus on attention
    to details
  * Must be a well-organized self-starter with high energy and creativity; Must
    be able to manage multiple tasks by setting priorities and being
    results-oriented to meet defined timelines
  * Must have the ability to work independently and in a cross-functional team
    environment
  * Must Demonstrate a high level of ethics and professionalism
  * Must be proficient in statistical and quantitative methods
  * CFA charterholder or candidate is a plus.

 


Position Located In:CO - Lone Tree, CA - San Francisco
Apply Now    
[UViUA]

Brokerage Products: Not FDIC Insured ? No Bank Guarantee ? May Lose Value

Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer committed to diversifying its workforce. It is Schwab's policy to
provide equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants without
regard to race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy, childbirth,
breastfeeding, or related medical conditions), gender identity or expression,
national origin, ancestry, age, disability, legally protected medical
condition, genetic information, marital status, sexual orientation, protected
veteran status, military status, citizenship status or any other status that is
protected by law. Schwab also does not discriminate against applicants or
employees because they have inquired about, discussed, or disclosed their own
pay or the pay of another employee or applicant.

At Schwab, we believe that every employee, through their diverse abilities and
experiences, can contribute to our growth, innovation and client loyalty. We
embrace diversity and are committed to providing equal opportunity to all
employees and applicants. If you have a disability, and require reasonable
accommodations in the application process, call Human Resources at
800-725-3535. We will be happy to assist you. Schwab will only share your
accommodation request with those individuals who have a specific need to know.
The request for an accommodation will not affect Schwab?s hiring decisions. All
other submissions should be performed online.

The Charles Schwab Corporation provides a full range of securities, brokerage,
banking, money management, and financial advisory services through its
operating subsidiaries. Its broker-dealer subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co.,
Inc. (?Schwab?), Member SIPC , offers investment services and products,
including Schwab brokerage accounts. Its banking subsidiary, Charles Schwab
Bank (member FDIC and an Equal Housing Lender), provides deposit and lending
services and products.

  * ? Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (Member SIPC) All rights reserved. (1115-7068)
  * Contact
  * Site map
  * Schwab.com

  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * YouTube
  * LinkedIn
  * Google Plus

Powered by SmashFly
