Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory

 

Careers at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory

  • Culture
      □ Diversity & Inclusion
      □ History
  • Benefits
  • Students
  • Postdocs
  • Jobs
  • Virtual Tours
  • FAQ



  • Home / Jobs / Machine Learning and Data Analysis Post College Appointee
  • 

Machine Learning and Data Analysis Post College Appointee

Location: Livermore, CA
Category: Students & Faculty
Organization: Engineering
Posting Requirement: External Posting
Job ID: 101909
Job Code: Post College Appointee Ex (710.0)
Date Posted: January 06 2017

Share this Job

Apply Now

Apply For This Job

Science and Technology on a Mission!

For more than 60 years, the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) has
applied science and technology to make the world a safer place.

We have several openings for a Computational Engineering Post College
Appointee. You will conduct applied research in machine learning, computational
fluid dynamics, and data analysis in support of the Laboratory’s core missions.
This position is in the Computational Engineering Division in the Engineering
Directorate.
 
Essential Duties 
- Develop machine learning algorithms to 1) reduce the dimensionality of
complex systems and 2) correlate with external parameters.
- Develop VisIT scripts for feature detection and measurement in fluid flows.
- Conduct statistical analysis to correlate system features with external
parameters.
- Assist with developing experimental designs that will help maximize the
information from a fixed number of computational runs.
- Assist in documentation of developed methodologies to inform the scientific
and industrial communities.
- Perform other duties as assigned.
 
Qualifications
- Recent BS in Engineering, Computer Science, Physics, Biology, or related
field. (Within two years of application).
- Demonstrated programming skills in one or more higher-level programming
languages such as C, C++, Java, or Python.
- Experience with one or more of the following in a basic or applied setting:
machine learning, VisIT, or statistical software.
- Demonstrated verbal and written communication skills to collaborate
effectively in a team environment and present and explain technical
information.

Pre-Employment Drug Test:  External applicant(s) selected for this position
will be required to pass a post-offer, pre-employment drug test.
 

Anticipated Clearance Level:  None.

 

Note:   This is a one-year Post College Appointee with the possibility of
extension to a maximum of two years.   

About Us

Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL), located in the San Francisco Bay
Area (East Bay), is a premier applied science laboratory that is part of the
National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) within the Department of Energy
(DOE).  LLNL's mission is strengthening national security by developing and
applying cutting-edge science, technology, and engineering that respond with
vision, quality, integrity, and technical excellence to scientific issues of
national importance.  The Laboratory has a current annual budget of about $1.5
billion, employing approximately 6,000 employees.

 

LLNL is an affirmative action/ equal opportunity employer. All qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, marital status, national origin, ancestry, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity, disability, medical condition, protected veteran
status, age, citizenship, or any other characteristic protected by law.

Apply for this Job
Talent Network

Join our Talent Network

Joining our Talent Network will enhance your job search process.

Find out about future opportunities by registering your details with us.

Just upload your resume and complete a few simple questions about the type of
position you are looking for. Once your profile is complete, our recruiting
team will be able to match you to suitable roles.

We look forward to staying connected with you!

Related Jobs

  • Computer Vision Post College Appointee (101858)
  • Instrumentation Engineer Post College Appointee (101662)
  • Materials Engineering Divison Student Intern (101810)
  • Laser Systems Engineering & Operations Student Intern (101774)
  • Computational Engineering Division Student Intern (101746)

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  • Culture
      □ Diversity & Inclusion
      □ History
  • Benefits
  • Students
  • Postdocs
  • Virtual Tours
  • FAQ


LLNL

Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
7000 East Avenue • Livermore, CA 94550

Operated by Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC, for the
Department of Energy's National Nuclear Security Administration.

NNSA U.S. DOE LLNS

LLNL-WEB-677430  |  Privacy & Legal Notice

[]

stats
