Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist

Data Scientist

Requisition ID 
    2016-25919

Job Locations 
    US-NC-ASHEVILLE

Mid Salary 
    USD $102,900.00/Yr.

Division 
    Mission Hospital

Min Salary 
    USD $68,600.00/Yr.

Position Type 
    Regular Full-Time

Max Salary 
    USD $137,200.00/Yr.

Shift 
    9p - 5p

More information about this job:

Overview and Qualifications:

Mission Health’s Information Technology department invites you to apply to join
the Clinical & Business Analytics team. Dynamic leadership and innovative staff
are working together at Mission Health making us an officially certified Great
Place to Work and Practice (GPTWP). The IT division is proud to have earned the
Most Wired designation each of the past five years. To learn more about Mission
Health you can view a short video by clicking here.

 

JOB SUMMARY:

Using clinical, business and external data, along with advanced modeling and
data mining techniques, develop actionable insights that drive improvements in
patient care and reduce costs. Specifically, produce forecasting models and
recommender systems which can be used to optimize care, manage risk (both
clinical and financial), and support population health initiatives. This is a
system-wide staff position, which supports Mission's programs and services
through expertise in Statistics, Econometrics, Applied Mathematics, Decision
Science, Industrial Engineering, and/or Operations Research.

 

 

REQUIRED EDUCATION:  Master's Degree in Statistics, Biostatistics,
Econometrics, Applied Mathematics, Decision Science, Industrial Engineering, or
related field

 

 

PREFERRED EDUCATION:  Ph.D. in Statistics, Biostatistics, Econometrics, Applied
Mathematics, Decision Science, Industrial Engineering, or related field with a
similar quantitative orientation.

 

 

REQUIRED EXPERIENCE:  Strong mathematical modeling and data mining skills.
Demonstrate proficiency with statistical modeling, including working knowledge
of statistical methods and techniques such as regression (OLS, GLM, ARIMA,
LASSO and variants, etc.) and machine learning (deep learning, SVM, tree-based
methods, etc.). Advanced R programming proficiency required; proficiency in
Python, JavaScript, and SAS a plus. Proficiency with SQL is required. Aptitude
and willingness to learn new analytical methods, software applications, and
tools. Demonstrate strong written, verbal communication, and presentation
skills. Demonstrate strong organizational and time management skills, with
attention to detail. Demonstrate strong partnering and relationship-building
skills.

 

 

PREFERRED EXPERIENCE:  Two or more years of equivalent/related professional or
academic experience in applications of advanced analytics in production-level
systems preferably in the health services industry Experience with SQL
programming. Demonstrated strong leadership skills. Knowledge of statistical
modeling techniques encountered in a healthcare context, and ability to provide
practical interpretation of model results for non-expert audiences . Experience
with advanced data visualization tools (e.g. QlikView, Tableau, TIBCO
Spotfire).

 

 

#OFCCP

PM2017

 

Options:

 
Apply for this jobApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

