Skip Navigation
Capital One - US Main menu

  • Teams & Roles
  • Life at Capital One

Job Details

Machine Learning Data Engineer

Apply now Job ID R16815 Date posted 01/04/2017 Locations McLean, Virginia
Recruiting: VA - McLean, United States of America, McLean, Virginia

At Capital One, we’re building a leading information-based technology company.
Still founder-led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank,
Capital One is on a mission to help our customers succeed by bringing
ingenuity, simplicity, and humanity to banking. We measure our efforts by the
success our customers enjoy and the advocacy they exhibit. We are succeeding
because they are succeeding.                                               

Guided by our shared values, we thrive in an environment where collaboration
and openness are valued. We believe that innovation is powered by perspective
and that teamwork and respect for each other lead to superior results. We
elevate each other and obsess about doing the right thing. Our associates serve
with humility and a deep respect for their responsibility in helping our
customers achieve their goals and realize their dreams. Together, we are on a
quest to change banking for good.

Machine Learning Data Engineer

As Machine Learning engineer on the Data Intelligence team, you will contribute
to building a fast data and machine learning platform scalable to solve diverse
business problems.  We envision, create, deploy, and maintain full stack
technology solutions powered by streaming big data, state of the art machine
learning, micro-service architecture, and intuitive visualizations in the
cloud. At Capital One, we have seas of big data and rivers of fast data. To
manage this, we are working with a number of cutting edge machine learning
technologies, and are actively developing more. We are highly technical with
strong backgrounds in what we do.  Our use cases range from cyber threat
prevention to predicting environment outages to enable our always on 24/7
services.  We have the highest executive support and direct impact on our
customer experience and bottom line.

Who you are:

• You yearn to be part of cutting edge, high profile projects and are motivated
by delivering world-class solutions on an aggressive schedule

• Someone who is not intimidated by challenges; thrives even under pressure; is
passionate about their craft; and hyper focused on delivering exceptional
results

• You love to learn new technologies and mentor junior engineers to raise the
bar on your team

• It would be awesome if you have a robust portfolio on Github and / or
open source contributions you are proud to share

• You use, or are passionate about learning, and implementing complex systems
to further customer goals. Implementing complex data structures or optimizing
distributed machine learning deployments is something that you're excited
about.

#ilovedata

What we have:

• Flexible work schedules

• Convenient office locations

• Generous salary and merit-based pay incentives

• A startup mindset with the wallet and resources of a top 10 bank

• Monthly innovation challenges dedicated to test driving cutting edge
technologies

• Your choice of equipment (MacBook/PC, iPhone/Android Device)

Basic Qualifications:

- Bachelor’s Degree or military experience

- At least 2 years of experience working with Machine Learning frameworks and
Data Science methodologies

- At least 2 years’ experience writing production code with either Java, Scala
or Python

-At least 1 year of combined experience with the following technologies: Spark,
Scala, Akka, Cassandra, Accumulo, Hbase, Hadoop, HDFS, AVRO, MongoDB, or Mesos

Preferred Qualifications:

- Master's Degree

- Experience with recognized industry patterns, methodologies, and techniques

- 3 years+ of experience in working on and delivering research oriented data
driven problems

- 1 year+ experience with AWS, specifically S3, EC2, and EMR

- 1 year+ experience with Spark, HDFS, and related large data technologies

- 1 year+ experience working with machine learning like SciKit-Learn, MLLib, or
Theano, in production environments

No agencies please. Capital One is an Equal Opportunity Employer committed to
diversity in the workplace. All qualified applicants will receive consideration
for employment without regard to gender, race, color, age, national origin,
religion, disability, genetic information, marital status, sexual orientation,
gender identity/assignment, citizenship, pregnancy or maternity, protected
veteran status, or any other status protected by applicable national, federal,
state or local law Capital One promotes a drug-free workplace. Capital One will
consider for employment qualified applicants with a criminal history in a
manner consistent with the requirements of applicable laws regarding criminal
background inquiries, including, to the extent applicable, Article 23-A of the
New York Correction Law; San Francisco, California Police Code Article 49,
Sections 4901-4920; New York City’s Fair Chance Act; Philadelphia’s Fair
Criminal Records Screening Act; and other applicable federal, state, and local
laws and regulations regarding criminal background inquiries.

If you require an accommodation to apply for a job or to perform a job, please
contact Capital One Recruiting at 1-800-304-9102 or
RecruitingAccommodation@capitalone.com.

All information you provide will be kept confidential and will be used only to
the extent required to provide needed reasonable accommodations.

For technical support or questions about Capital One's recruiting process,
please send an email to Careers@capitalone.com

Capital One does not provide, endorse nor guarantee and is not liable for
third-party products, services, educational tools or other information
available through this site.

Capital One Financial is made up of several different entities. Please note
that any position posted in Canada is for Capital One Canada, any position
posted in the United Kingdom is for Capital One Europe and any position posted
in the Philippines is for Capital One Philippines Service Corp. (COPSSC).

Apply now

Share This Job

  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • LinkedIn
  • Email

 

Our Location

Job alerts

Sign up here for job alerts and other communications from Capital One.

Email Address[                    ]

Interested InSearch for a category and select one from the list of suggestions.
Search for a location and select one from the list of suggestions. Finally,
click “Add” to create your job alert.

Category[                    ]

Location[                    ]

Add

  • Information Technology, McLean, Virginia, United StatesRemove
  • Engineering, McLean, Virginia, United StatesRemove
  • Technology Explorers, McLean, Virginia, United StatesRemove
  • Remove

Confirm Email [                    ]

[Sign up]

Similar Jobs

  • Sr. Manager Information Security - Mergers and Acquisitions McLean,
    Virginia
  • Master Platform Engineer(USA) McLean, Virginia
  • Endpoint Data Loss Prevention (DLP) Operations - Principal Associate 
    McLean, Virginia

Search

Search Jobs

Keywords [                    ]

Location [                    ] [Use Location]

Radius [Radius  ]

Search

Match jobs to your LinkedIn profile. Welcome Back, Login

  • Our Take On Interviews

    Our Take On Interviews

  • Investing in Communities

    Investing in Communities

  • More than just a bank

    More Than Just A Bank

  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • LinkedIn
  • YouTube
  • Glassdoor

Legal

  • Privacy
  • Security
  • Terms & Conditions
  • Patriot Act Cert. *
  • Service members Civil
  • Relief Act

Member FDIC

Equal Housing Lender

Capital One is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and
inclusion in the workplace. Capital One promotes a drug-free workplace.

All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without
regard to sex, race, color, age, national origin, religion, physical and mental
disability, genetic information, marital status, sexual orientation, gender
identity/assignment, citizenship, pregnancy or maternity, protected veteran
status, or any other status prohibited by applicable national, federal, state
or local law.

If you have visited our website in search of information on U.S. employment
opportunities or to apply for a position, and you require an accommodation,
please contact Capital One Recruiting at 1-800-304-9102 or via email at
RecruitingAccommodation@capitalone.com. All information you provide will be
kept confidential and will be used only to the extent required to provide
needed reasonable accommodations.

Capital One is a federally registered service mark. All rights reserved. Blank
Check® is a registered trademark of Capital One Services, LLC. Capital One does
not provide, endorse, nor guarantee and is not liable for third party products,
services, educational tools, or other information available through this site.

*Plugins required [ Adobe^®Reader^® ]

E-Verify® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security
E-Verify

FORTUNE and FORTUNE 100 Best Companies to Work For are registered trademarks of
Time Inc. and are used under license.

From FORTUNE Magazine, March 15, 2016 ©2016 Time Inc. Used under license.

FORTUNE and Time Inc. are not affiliated with, and do not endorse products or
services of, Licensee.

Diversity works here Fortune 100
