Skip Navigation Japanese Returning User Login Corporate Website
Takeda Pharmaceutical
Menu

  * Japanese
  * Returning User Login
  * Corporate Website
  * What We Do
  * Japan
  * Asia Pacific
  * Nemea & CIS
  * Europe
  * Latin America
  * US & Canada

We act as a team
we
Search Jobs
Search Jobs

Keyword or Job Number [                    ]

Location [                    ]

Radius [--select--]

Go

*Searching by partial keywords may not display all current opportunities.
Please search all Takeda Jobs.

Search with LinkedIn profile

Statistician ? Safety Stats

Apply Now

  * Success Profile
  * Rewards
  * Videos
  * News and Events
  * Overview
  * Responsibilities
  * Map
  * Recent Jobs

 

  * LinkedIn
  * Twitter
  * Facebook
  * YouTube
  * Instagram

Success Profile

What makes a successful member of our team? Check out the top traits we are
looking for and see if you have the right mix

Animated Graph

Engage Others Motivates and influences others to gain support for ideas,
strategies and actions in service to providing superior pharmaceutical products
to patients; provides appropriate background so that messages are meaningful
with audiences.

Collaboration Establishes productive relationships and partners with others
across the organization to ensure common understanding of objectives and
achieve shared goals.

Drive for Results Holds self and others accountable for delivering on
commitments that align with our short- and long-term goals, never forgetting
the end result is to help patients through innovation in medicine.

Strategic Approach Makes sound decisions that are consistent with our mission,
values and organizational objectives.

Lead Change Proactively evaluates, promotes, and initiates change that creates
value for patients, the organization, and our shareholders.

Self Awareness Seeks feedback from others, modifies self-perceptions and
actions based on this feedback, and actively develops skills and behaviors to
enhance contribution.

Develop Capabilities Seeks opportunities to develop oneself and others so that
we can continue to achieve sustained growth.

Rewards

  * Teamwork

    Takeda builds strong, borderless and empowered teams through fairness and
    promoting shared goals. By working together, we optimize energy and can
    lead the change for a better world.

  * Innovation

    Takeda implements bold initiatives on a daily basis by striving for
    continuous improvement and encouraging enthusiasm and creativity. This
    value speaks to attracting the best minds in the industry that are
    committed to delivering novel therapies to patients worldwide.

  * Diversity

    Takeda respects and includes a broad range of people and ideas in its daily
    operations. Our organization encourages each individual to act with empathy
    and to apply their unique skills to realize the company?s true potential.

  * Passion

    Takeda's drive comes from perseverance, urgency and a strong desire to
    contribute to patients. We put this passion to work in everything we do and
    demonstrate courage to fight for ideas and objectives to raise the quality
    of our solutions, create stronger ties with our stakeholders, and deliver
    results.

  * Commitment

    Takeda works to meet its responsibilities to stakeholders on a daily basis.
    We provide adequate support and challenge to ensure we deliver high-quality
    solutions that help more people around the world.

  * Transparency

    Takeda appropriately shares information and promotes honest, sincere
    dialogue with stakeholders to build trust. This trust enables us to
    strengthen our relationships with employees and external communities.

Videos

  * 
    Takeda Oncology

  * 
    Inspired by Patients

  * 
    Corporate Citizenship Activities

News and Events

  * Moving Mountains

    Moving Mountains My Story and Why I?m Climbing
    I oversee Corporate Communications at Takeda Oncology, a company committed
    to discovering and developing treatments for patients with cancers

    Moving Mountains
      + facebook
      + twitter
  * 1000 cranes of hope

    Legend has it, a person who folds 1000 cranes will be granted one wish.
    We're very proud of our 1000 Cranes of Hope display located in our
    Cambridge HQ! Learn more about this amazing initiative:

    1000 Cranes of Hope
      + facebook
      + twitter
  * Our communities

    Rushing Toward a Cure (RTC) launched in 2006 in partnership with the
    Patriots Radio Network (WBZ 98.5) and our local chapter of the Leukemia &
    Lymphoma Society (LLS). With RTC, Takeda Oncology contributes a set
    financial donation to the LLS for every 100 rushing yards gained by New
    England during the pre, regular and post-seasons. This money helps fund
    vital blood cancer research, patient services and education programs.

      + facebook
      + twitter

Overview

More than 30,000 Takeda employees working in more than 70 countries are
committed to improving quality of life for patients, who remain at the center
of everything we do. Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited is a global,
research and development-driven organization working internally and with
external partners to translate science into life-changing medicines. Takeda
focuses on the core therapeutic areas of oncology, gastroenterology, central
nervous system and providing vaccines that address the most important
infectious diseases. Novel products, especially in oncology and
gastroenterology, as well as our presence in emerging markets, fuel our growth.

Takeda Pharmaceuticals U.S.A., Inc. ranks among the top 15 pharmaceutical
companies in the United States. Our larger U.S. offices are in Cambridge, MA,
Deerfield, IL, and San Diego, CA. Research & Development employees in our
Cambridge location focus on oncology, gastroenterology, immunomodulation,
biologics, translational research, and external innovation. In March 2016, we
opened our newest space at 300 Massachusetts Avenue, featuring 230,000 square
feet of state-of-the-art office and lab space.

While Takeda is enjoying tremendous growth as an emerging global leader in the
pharmaceutical industry, we remain ever mindful of our commitment to serve
people worldwide by striving toward better health through leading innovation in
medicine. In short, we are a passionate team doing important work that impacts
patients? lives. If you are driven to create better health and a brighter
future, join us!

Responsibilities

Please note that the requirements specified in this posting are the basic
qualifications required for the Principal Statistician position; however, job
title will be dependent on the candidate's level of experience in those
requirements.
OBJECTIVES:

The purpose of this position is to provide compound level / development phase
statistical expertise and leadership by:

  * Independently designing, analyzing and interpreting clinical studies at a
    compound level for early phase or less complex programs.
  * Providing strategic statistical input for feasibility assessments,
    development plans, cross-study analyses and regulatory submissions.
  * Improving and using standards to maximize global data integratability,
    interpretability and compound level efficiency
  * Leveraging internal and external resources to achieve quality, timely and
    cost-effective compound level and submission deliverables.
  * Independently representing Statistics function in interactions with
    regulatory authorities.

ACCOUNTABILITIES:

  * Independently represent statistics function on global teams in support of
    clinical studies and compound level programs.
  * Provide strategic statistical input to feasibility assessments, development
    and submission plans, and defense of regulatory submissions. Negotiate
    timelines (statistical) at compound level.
  * Plays a leadership role in the development and review of the study
    synopsis, protocol, statistical analysis plan, clinical study report, and
    other regulatory submission documents, ensuring accurate and statistically
    valid deliverables.
  * Oversee definition and implementation of compound-level database (including
    derived database), analysis and reporting standards.  Improve or use
    existing standards to ensure maximization of global integratibility and
    interpretability of data and enhance efficiency at compound level. 
    Coordinate with Data Management, Programming, Clinical and PV to target
    high quality databases and specifications at compound level.
  * Plan and direct compound level analysis and reporting activities (eg,
    tables, listings, graphs) including work of other statisticians and
    programmers.
  * Identify compound level vendor requirements and participate in the
    evaluation/selection of vendors. Provide compound level analytical
    oversight of statistical activities of external vendors to ensure
    timeliness and quality of analysis data and statistical outputs. Review and
    approve key statistical vendor deliverables.
  * Identify and interact with external statistical experts for issues related
    to study design, methodology and results.
  * Anticipate and communicate internal and external resource and quality
    issues that may impact deliverables or timelines of the compound level
    program.  Propose and implement solutions. Escalate issues to management as
    appropriate in a timely manner.
  * Lead the implementation of department standards and process improvements.
  * Lead evaluation and implementation of alternative analysis methodology and
    data presentation techniques.
  * Monitor and contribute to industry advances in statistical methods to
    optimize study designs and statistical analysis methods, and implement
    innovative approaches at a compound level.

Qualifications

EDUCATION, BEHAVIOURAL COMPETENCIES AND SKILLS:

  * Generally requires PhD in statistics or biostatistics with at least 5 years
    of relevant experience or MS in statistics or biostatistics with at least 7
    years of relevant experience. For statisticians with exceptional talent who
    have demonstrated core capabilities of a Principal Statistician, 3 years of
    pharmaceutical industry experiences with a PhD in statistics or
    biostatistics may be considered.
  * Experience with advanced study design or at least one NDA/CTDs or other
    global regulatory submissions.
  * Advanced knowledge of clinical study designs, common analysis methods,
    descriptive and inferential statistics.
  * Advanced knowledge of the pharmaceutical industry including understanding
    of clinical drug development process and associated documents.
  * Extensive knowledge of FDA and ICH regulations and industry standards
    applicable to the design, analysis of clinical trials and regulatory
    submissions.
  * Good knowledge of statistical programming languages (including SAS),
    software, techniques, and processes. Working knowledge of UNIX operating
    systems, and common software products and technologies used in conjunction
    with SAS (e.g., Microsoft Office? products).
  * Excellent oral and written communications skills.
  * Strong project management skills.
  * Strong collaborative skills and ability to work with a cross-functional
    team.

PHYSICAL DEMANDS:
The physical demands described here are representative of those that must be
met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this
job.  Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with
disabilities to perform the essential functions.

  * Ability to sit and stand for long periods of time.
  * Carrying, handling and reaching for objects.
  * Ability to lift and carry over 25 pounds.
  * Manual dexterity to operate office equipment i.e. computers, phones, etc.

TRAVEL REQUIREMENTS:

  * Access to transportation to attend various meetings held in proximity to
    the Takeda offices.
  * Able to fly to various meetings at investigator, vendor or regulatory
    agency sites.
  * Some international travel may be required.


we are driven to improve people's lives

www.takedajobs.com

Takeda is an EEO employer of minorities, women, disabled, protected veterans.
For more information, visithttp://www.takeda.us/careers/
EEO_Policy_Statement.aspx

No Phone Calls or Recruiters Please.


Schedule
Full-time

About our Location

Find out what it?s like to work in our Cambridge office.

View Map

Sign Up for Job Alerts

Sign Up

Email Address[                    ]

Select Your InterestsSearch for a category and select one from the list of
suggestions. Search for a location and select one from the list of suggestions.
Finally, click ?Add? to create your job alert.

Category[                    ]

Location[                    ]

Add

  * Research and Development, Cambridge, Massachusetts, United StatesRemove
  * Statistics, Cambridge, Massachusetts, United StatesRemove
  * Remove

Confirm Email [                    ]

[Sign Up]

Share

  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * LinkedIn
  * Email

Current employees click here >
? 2017 Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited. All rights reserved.

*
