Quadrint
 

  • Who We Are
      □ Mission / Vision / Values
      □ Leadership
      □ Certifications + Awards
      □ Board of Advisors
  • Expertise
      □ Enterprise Resource Planning
      □ Business Intelligence + Analytics
      □ Enterprise Content + Records Management
      □ High-Speed Information Sharing
      □ Information Technology Management
      □ Customer Service Enhancement
      □ Business Process Management
  • Our Work
      □ Partners
      □ Clients
      □ Case Studies
  • Join Our Team
      □ Quadrint Culture
      □ Job Openings
  • Contact

 

  • Quadrint Job Opportunities

Quadrint culture, corporate culture, quadrint, quadrint inc., quadrint inc,
quadrint company, quadrint it, quadrint company culture, quadrint corporate
culture, quadrint work life, quadrint work, quadrint team, quadrint human
resources

  • Log In
  • Register
  • Jobs
  • Back to Website

Statistician/Data Scientist

Email
Tweet
Location: Springfield, VA; St. Louis, MO; Denver, CO
Date Posted: 01-04-2017
Apply Now

Statistician/Data Scientist:
Provide statistical and mathematical support in assisting NGA analyze and
interpret a wide range of data to help NGA understand and improve our
customer’s experience.  Ability to leverage a range of data sources (e.g., Web
traffic, customer requests for information, survey responses, production
databases, etc.) for an understanding of what drives a positive customer
experience. Provide insights that will be used to inform NGA strategy and
decisions, in partnership with teams examining Website design, customer
interactions, featured content, and future GEOINT products and services. 
 
Works with various stakeholders to develop business questions and identify the
data necessary to analyze to answer those questions.  Collaborate across a
diverse team of statisticians/data analysts.  Utilizes industry standard
communication and visualization tools to visualize and communicate complex
quantitative information and analysis to senior executives.  Applies business
analytics and customer segmentation techniques in any corporate function, e.g.
marketing analytics, consumer analytics, operations analysis, human capital
analytics, or other relevant fields.  Uses data mining for structured and
unstructured information to join and explore relationships in disparate data
sets.  Applies advanced analytics capabilities to derive insights from a
combination of unstructured, semi-structured, and structured data.  Maintains,
moves, and manipulates data between applications, using appropriate software:
Apache Spark, ElasticSearch, R, Python, Kibana and others as technology
evolves.  Strength in collaboration and teamwork within, between, and across
organizational boundaries.
 
 
Required Education and Experience:

  • Must have an active TS/SCI clearance with CI Poly.
  • Familiarity with MS Office, data mining, ability to develop and manipulate,
    and maintain databases. 
  • Demonstrated experience using COTS statistical software (SPSS, SAS, MatLab
    etc.), COTS desktop software (MS Office and Access), and the Windows
    operating environment. 
  • Ability to develop mathematical algorithms and applications in response to
    complex requirements.
  • Ability to identify systems enhancements and new capabilities, concept
    demonstrators, capability business cases.
  • Ability to provide training as new systems and capabilities move into
    operational use. 
  • Must be able to take leadership roles on.
  • Demonstrates good oral and written communication skills, along with good
    interpersonal skills and an ability to work cooperatively and effectively
    as a team member.
  • Bachelor’s Degree or equivalent experience within related field
  • 3-6 years of experience 

 
Quadrint, Inc. is an equal opportunity employer.  All qualified applicants will
receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion,
sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, national origin,
age, marital status, protected veteran status, status as an individual with a
disability, or any other protected status. 
 


Apply Now
this job portal is powered by CATS
 

  • link
  • link
  • link
  • link

[] [Search Quadrint     ]
Copyright 2014 © Quadrint, Inc. All rights reserved. | Privacy Policy

