Skip to Main Content

  * about
  * benefits
  * employees

[2393418]

Jobs at USC

  * Home
  * Search Jobs
  * Create Account
  * Log In
  * Help

Jobs by category

ALL UNIVERSITY JOBS ALL FACULTY JOBS KECK HOSPITAL OF USC
USC NORRIS CANCER HOSPITAL USC VERDUGO HILLS HOSPITAL AUXILIARY SERVICES

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[2161407]

USC HIRING MANAGERS

Research Scientist

Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary
documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening.
 To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button.

If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the
Bookmark link.  If you would like to print a copy of this position for your
records, click on the Print Preview link.

Bookmark this Posting | Print Preview | Apply for this Job

Posting Details

Posting Details

Requisition  1007661
     ID
Position ID  P01483097
  Academic   Research Scientist
   Title
 Department  Center for Economic and Social Research (CESR)
  Location   University Park Campus
 Employment  Full-Time
    Type
 Percent of
  time for
 Part-time
  Position
 Employment  New
   Terms
Hiring Range
             The University of Southern California (USC), founded in 1880, is
             located in the heart of downtown L.A. and is the largest private
             employer in the City of Los Angeles. As an employee of USC, you
             will be a part of a world-class research university and a member
             of the ?Trojan Family,? which is comprised of the faculty,
             students and staff that make the university what it is.

             USC?s Dana and David Dornsife College of Letters, Arts & Sciences,
             The Center for Economic and Social Research is seeking a Research
             Scientist to join its team.

             The Center for Economic and Social Research (CESR) is an
             interdisciplinary institute in the USC Dornsife College of
             Letters, Arts and Sciences, led by Arie Kapteyn. The goal of the
             institute is to conduct a wide range of research projects in the
             social sciences and economics, often in collaboration with other
             departments and schools at USC. We envision CESR to be an
             exciting, new, and innovative environment for both fundamental and
             applied research.

             Job responsibilities include:

               * Serves as a key research scientist who is recognized as a
                 national authority on topics in specialized field. Acts more
                 independently and with a greater degree of freedom than senior
                 research associate. Plans, designs and conducts highly
                 specialized, technical and unusually complex research projects
                 independently. Works under consultative direction from
                 supervisor toward long-range goals and objectives. Exercises
                 considerable latitude in determining research objectives and
                 approaches. May contribute to the development of advanced
                 concepts, techniques and standards.

               * Identifies, researches, compiles and evaluates data sources,
    Job          background information and/or technology related to area of
Announcement     specialization.

               * Analyzes and evaluates research data utilizing computers and
                 provides interpretations requiring significant knowledge of a
                 specialized area of research. Searches literature, utilizing
                 all available resources including electronic, regarding new
                 methodology and designs experiments accordingly.

               * Develops solutions to wide-range of research problems of
                 unusual complexity, which require a high degree of ingenuity,
                 creativity and innovativeness. Creates or modifies methods and
                 techniques for obtaining solutions. Ensures solutions are
                 consistent with research objectives.

               * Develops research documentation for publication alone or with
                 others and/or prepares technical reports, papers and/or
                 records that show independent thinking and leadership in
                 scholarly writing.

               * Makes presentations at academic and/or practitioner
                 conferences. May participate in workshops.

               * Operates and maintains sophisticated laboratory/scientific
                 equipment.

               * Provides leadership, direction and guidance to staff and/or
                 student workers regarding procedures, techniques and use of
                 equipment as needed.

             Performs other related duties as assigned or requested. The
             University reserves the right to add or change duties at any time.

             The University of Southern California values diversity and is
             committed to equal opportunity in employment.

Job Category Laboratory and Research, Institutional Research and Planning
    FLSA     Exempt

Minimum Qualifications

 Minimum   Ph.D. or equivalent doctorate
Education
 Minimum   5 years
Experience
           Directly related education and experience in research specialization
           with highly advanced knowledge of equipment, procedures, analysis
           methods, principles, theories and concepts. Demonstrated leadership
 Minimum   in developing new ideas and ability to publish in appropriate
 Field of  academic and practitioner outlets. Demonstrated independent thinking
Expertise  and leadership in scholarly writing according to such criteria as:
           first authored publications, conceptual leadership in the
           development of publications generated alone or with others, writing
           of first drafts of publications and/or single authored publications.

Preferred Qualifications

Preferred Education  Ph.D in Economics or related field

                     Demonstrated research skills, preferably in the form of
                     peer reviewed publications.
Preferred Experience
                     Demonstrated success initiating and leading research
                     projects and grant proposals

     Supervises
Supervises - Nature
      of Work
 Preferred Field of
     Expertise

Additional Information

Special Instructions to Applicants
      Quicklink for Posting        http://jobs.usc.edu/postings/77629

Supplemental Questions

Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*).

Applicant Documents

Required Documents

 1. Resume/CV
 2. Cover Letter

Optional Documents

 1. Letter of Reference 1
 2. Letter of Reference 2
 3. Letter of Reference 3

USC is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. All qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin,
protected veteran status, disability, or any other characteristic protected by
law or USC policy.

 

We provide reasonable accommodations to applicants and employees with
disabilities. Applicants with questions about access or requiring a reasonable
accommodation for any part of the application or hiring process should contact
USC Human Resources by phone at (213) 821-8100, or by email at uschr@usc.edu.
Inquiries will be treated as confidential to the extent permitted by law.

 

Read USC?s Clery Act Annual Security Report.

Required Legal Notices.

