Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist - Lifecycle Engineering

Data Scientist - Lifecycle Engineering

Job Locations 
    US-MA-Billerica

Posted Date 
    1/8/2017

Category 
    Engineering / Program Management

More information about this job

Position Summary

The Data Scientist role is responsible for supporting research and development
of several data analytics initiatives. Working with senior technical leaders,
you will develop tools and processes to transform data into insights. We are a
fast growing company that provides an energetic work environment and tremendous
career growth opportunities.

 

The Position will report to the Data Analytics Leader from a functional
perspective and to the Life Cycle Engineering Leader from an execution
perspective.

Responsibilities

  • Work with IT and cross functional teams to identify data sources, determine
    data collection and aggregation mechanism.
  • Perform data quality check and data clean up. Develop data preprocessing
    tools as needed.
  • Perform statistical analysis and generate reporting charts per business
    requirements.
  • Develop and implement advanced algorithms under the guidance of senior data
    scientists.
  • Perform other duties as required.

Education and Experience

  • Bachelors or Master’s degree in Mathematics, Computer Science, Electrical
    and Computer Engineering, or a closely related field is required.
  • At least 2 years of work experience related to data processing and
    presentation.
  • Experiences in medical device or healthcare industries is desirable.

 
Skills/Competencies:

  • Proficiency in Excel, Excel Macro, and VB scripts.
  • Demonstrated knowledge in SQL and relational databases.
  • Experience in Salesforce is desirable.
  • Experience in one or more analytic software tools, such as Python, R,
    Matlab, is a plus.
  • Experience in Business Intelligence tools, such as Tableau, Spotfire,
    Dundas, is a plus.
  • Demonstrated knowledge of software engineering principles and practices.
  • Ability to communicate effectively and document objectives and procedures.

 

Options

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
Share on your newsfeed
●Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

