Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Research Scientist

Research Scientist

Job ID 
    461575

Location 
    US-CA-Sunnyvale

Posted Date 
    11/11/2016

Company 
    A2Z Development Center, Inc.

Recruiting Team 
    ..

Job Description

Amazon Lab126 is an inventive research and development company that designs and
engineers high-profile consumer electronics. Lab126 began in 2004 as a
subsidiary of Amazon.com, Inc., originally creating the best-selling Kindle
family of products. Since then, we have produced groundbreaking devices like
Fire tablets, Fire TV and Amazon Echo. What will you help us create?


The Role:

Are you experienced at applying machine learning to big-data tasks? Are you
excited by analyzing and modeling terabytes of text, images, and other types of
data to solve real-world problems? We love data and we have lots of it. We?re
looking for top scientists capable of using machine learning and other
techniques to design, evangelize, and implement state-of-the-art solutions for
never-before-solved problems.

The Computer Vision and Machine Learning team at Amazon Lab126 has multiple
positions available for applied scientists in Sunnyvale, CA for machine
learning experts at all career stages, from graduating doctoral students to
internationally renowned researchers and practitioners.

We solve many of Amazon's most difficult and important problems, and in
partnership with teams across Amazon, we build new algorithms and solutions
that delight our customers. We are working on projects in image and video
understanding, natural language processing, deep learning, and more.

The ideal candidate is results-driven, deeply technical, and highly innovative.
If you know how to apply advanced machine learning techniques, love to work
with data, and long for the opportunity to build solutions to challenging
problems that directly impact the company's bottom line, we want to talk to
you. In this role, you will:Use statistical and machine learning techniques to
help our products behave intelligently and delight the end user
? Design, development and evaluation of highly innovative models for predictive
learning
? Work closely with software engineering teams to drive real-time model
implementations and new feature creation
? Establish scalable, efficient, automated processes for large-scale data
analyses, model development, model validation and model implementation
? Research and implement novel machine learning and statistical approaches







Basic Qualifications

  * MS or PhD in Computer Science, Machine Learning, Operational Research,
    Computer Vision, Statistics or a related quantitative field
  * 3+ years of hands-on experience in predictive modeling and analysis
  * 3+ years of algorithm development experience
  * 2+ years of experience with Java, C++, or other programming language, as
    well as with R, MATLAB, Python or similar scripting language




Preferred Qualifications

  * PhD in Computer Science, Machine Learning, Operational Research, Computer
    Vision, Statistics or a related quantitative field
  * Publications at top-tier peer-reviewed conferences or journals
  * Strong communication and data presentation skills
  * Strong problem solving ability
  * At least 1 year of post-graduate experience in academic or industry
    environment
  * Proven track record of innovation in creating novel algorithms and
    advancing the state of the art

Lab126 is part of the Amazon.com, Inc. group of companies and is an Equal
Opportunity-Affirmative Action Employer-Minority/Female/Disability/Vet

#LI-KV1
 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
