Computational Scientist
West Mifflin, PA
Search Other Jobs Apply Now
Naval Nuclear Laboratory
search again

Job Attributes

Req Code

18291

Location

Bettis Laboratory
West Mifflin, PA 15122
US

Category

Engineering/Science

Type

Full-time

Career Level

Experienced (Non-Manager)

Education

Master's Degree

Division

Technology

Organization

Reactor Technology

Shift Type

N/A

Date Posted

2016-12-05 20:43:04

Apply Now


Share this on

Share this on:

  * Home
  * About Us
  * Who We Are
  * Media
  * Suppliers
  * careers

New Search Previous Search

Computational Scientist
West Mifflin, PA

Job Description

We are looking for a computational scientist to solve a broad range of
engineering problems with scientists and engineers across multiple disciplines
by identifying, developing, and applying software and methods that leverage the
Naval Reactor Program's high performance computing systems. Depending on the
background of the individual near-term work assignments may include the
continued development of production-level engineering software, evaluation of
software performance bottlenecks, adaption of software to modern solvers and
parallel architectures, development of software capabilities required for
integration into a multiphysics framework, and identification and
implementation of software engineering and quality assurance improvements to
existing software tools. This work is largely focused on problem solving;
scientific programming; and requirements gathering across application
developer, engineering user, and system administrator groups. Particular
application areas include nuclear reactor physics (radiation transport), fluid
dynamics (turbulence, multiphase flow), solid mechanics (molecular dynamics),
and data science.

Job Requirements

Advanced:
M.S. degree in a computational science or engineering discipline, mathematics,
computer science, and/or a related field in the physical sciences from an
accredited college or university and a minimum of two years of relevant
experience.

Senior:
M.S. degree in a computational science or engineering discipline, mathematics,
computer science, and/or a related field in the physical sciences from an
accredited college or university and a minimum of four years of relevant
experience; or
Ph.D. degree in a computational science or engineering discipline, mathematics,
computer science, and/or a related field in the physical sciences from an
accredited college or university.

Demonstrated ability and passion for leading and developing original research
projects. Domain knowledge of numerical methods for solving partial
differential equations. Experience developing code with both compiled (e.g., C,
C++, Fortran) and interpreted (e.g., Python, Matlab) scientific computing
languages. Ability to work effectively across multiple projects simultaneously.
Capacity to work independently as well as in interdisciplinary teams with
minimal supervision. Outstanding written and verbal communication skills.

Job Preferred Skills

Experience contributing to and managing multiple developer software projects.
Familiarity with the software development process including best practices in
software quality assurance, software architectures, and software development
tool chains (e.g., unit testing, continuous integration, version control,
debugging, profiling, compiler operation/optimization). Experience with high
performance computing in terms of parallel programming and running massively
parallel jobs. Expertise in an aspect of numerical analysis: e.g.,
discretization techniques for solving partial differential equations
(especially Navier-Stokes), linear and nonlinear solvers, time-stepping
schemes, verification / validation / uncertainty quantification. Familiarity
with application domains: reactor physics, fluid dynamics, solid mechanics, and
/or data science.

Apply Now
Sitemap
Home About Us Who We Are Media Suppliers Careers Contact Us
Follow us
 
Career Opportunities
Administrative (2)Business Support (3)Contracts (1)Craft Workers (1)Designer
(3)Engineering/Science (109)Facilities (4)
Finance (1)Human Resources (9)Information Technology (42)Management (6)Project
Management (17)Security (1)Technicians (12)
All candidates must be U.S. citizens. Applicants selected will be subject to a
Federal background investigation and must meet eligibility requirements for
access to classified matter.
What to expect when being processed for a DOE Security Clearance | Departmental
Personnel Security FAQs

Bechtel Marine Propulsion Corporation is an Equal Opportunity Employer and is
Committed to Workforce Diversity.
Click here to view the poster, EEO Is the Law and its supplement.

Supporting the Nation Since 1946

? 2017 Naval Nuclear Laboratory

ADVERTO

