Refresh (0 sec) /careers/jobs/a0IA000000G3E8uMAF/?_fb_noscript=1
Verwijderen
We gebruiken cookies om inhoud en advertenties relevanter te maken en je een
veiligere ervaring te bieden. Als je op de website klikt of op de website
navigeert, ga je ermee akkoord dat we op en buiten Facebook informatie
verzamelen via cookies. Meer informatie, zoals over hoe je je instellingen kunt
aanpassen, vind je hier: cookiebeleid.

Facebook

E-mail of telefoon     Wachtwoord
[                    ] [                    ] [Aanmelden]
                       Account vergeten?
Registreren
*
 
Work at Facebook
 
Teams
 
Locations
 
University Students
 
Benefits
 
Facebook Life
 
Our Community

Data & Analytics

[                    ]
Menlo Park
Quantitative Researcher, Growth

(Menlo Park, CA)
Facebook's mission is to give people the power to share, and make the world
more open and connected. Through our growing family of apps and services, we're
building a different kind of company that helps billions of people around the
world connect and share what matters most to them. Whether we're creating new
products or helping a small business expand its reach, people at Facebook are
builders at heart. Our global teams are constantly iterating, solving problems,
and working together to make the world more open and accessible. Connecting the
world takes every one of us—and we're just getting started.
To succeed we need to understand the unique character of each of the world’s
communities, what Facebook means or could mean to them, and how best to make
our technology work for them. We’re looking for people with strong quantitative
research skills to help in this effort.

The ideal candidate will be a social scientist with expertise in quantitative
research methodologies OR a quantitative specialist with experience solving
social problems. They’ll be comfortable improvising and have the ability to
work cross-functionally and thrive in a fast-paced organization. All product
groups across Facebook are hiring including Instagram.

Responsibilities

  • Help shape the research agenda and drive research projects from end-to-end
  • Collaborate with product teams to define relevant questions about user
    growth and engagement
  • Deploy appropriate quantitative methodologies to answer those questions
  • Develop novel approaches where traditional methods won’t do
  • Collaborate with qualitative researchers as needed and iterate quickly to
    generate usable insights for product and business decisions
  • Deliver insights and recommendations clearly to relevant audiences

Minimum Qualifications

  • Ability to ask, as well as answer, meaningful and impactful questions
  • Ability to communicate complex analyses and results to any audience
  • Experience with Unix, Python, and large datasets (> 1TB) a plus
  • Master’s or Ph.D. in the social sciences (e.g., Psychology, Communication,
    Sociology, Political Science, Economics), OR in a quantitative field (e.g.,
    Statistics, Informatics, Econometrics) with experience answering social
    questions
  • Fluency in data manipulation and analysis (R/SAS/Stata, SQL/Hive)
  • Expertise in quantitative research methodologies (e.g., survey sampling and
    design, significance testing, regression modeling, experimental design,
    behavioral data analysis)

Apply
Facebook is proud to be an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action employer.
We do not discriminate based upon race, religion, color, national origin, sex
(including pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions), sexual
orientation, gender, gender identity, gender expression, transgender status,
sexual stereotypes, age, status as a protected veteran, status as an individual
with a disability, or other applicable legally protected characteristics.
If you need assistance or an accommodation due to a disability, you may contact
us at accommodations-ext@fb.com or you may call us at 1+650-308-7837.
Apply

Please limit to 3 applications.

Other positions in Growth, Engagement, Mobile

  • Data Scientist, Population and Survey Sciences
    (Menlo Park)
  • Growth Marketing Analyst (Social Media Strategy)
    (Menlo Park)
  • Marketing Intelligence Manager
    (Menlo Park)

Back to all jobs
Facebook © 2017Nederlands
Over ons
BedrijfsgegevensOnze Facebook-paginaRedactieVacatures
Instructies
HelpcentrumAlgemene informatie over privacyEen pagina makenMaak een advertentie
Ons beleid
gegevensbeleidVoorwaarden en beleidCookies
Meer informatiebronnen
Veiligheidscentrum voor familiesFacebook for BusinessFacebook voor
ontwikkelaars
