Refresh (0 sec) /careers/jobs/a0I1200000IA3MwEAL/?_fb_noscript=1
Verwijderen
We gebruiken cookies om inhoud en advertenties relevanter te maken en je een
veiligere ervaring te bieden. Als je op de website klikt of op de website
navigeert, ga je ermee akkoord dat we op en buiten Facebook informatie
verzamelen via cookies. Meer informatie, zoals over hoe je je instellingen kunt
aanpassen, vind je hier: cookiebeleid.

Facebook

E-mail of telefoon     Wachtwoord
[                    ] [                    ] [Aanmelden]
                       Account vergeten?
Registreren
*
 
Work at Facebook
 
Teams
 
Locations
 
University Students
 
Benefits
 
Facebook Life
 
Our Community

Data & Analytics

[                    ]
Menlo Park
Product Analyst

(Menlo Park, CA - New York, NY - Seattle, WA)
Facebook's mission is to give people the power to share, and make the world
more open and connected. Through our growing family of apps and services, we're
building a different kind of company that helps billions of people around the
world connect and share what matters most to them. Whether we're creating new
products or helping a small business expand its reach, people at Facebook are
builders at heart. Our global teams are constantly iterating, solving problems,
and working together to make the world more open and accessible. Connecting the
world takes every one of us—and we're just getting started.
We’re looking for data scientists to work on our core and business products
(Instagram, Ads, Messaging, Identity, Growth & Engagement, Mobile, Search,
Privacy, Payments ) with a passion for Internet technology to help drive
informed business decisions for Facebook. You will enjoy working with one of
the richest data sets in the world, cutting edge technology, and the ability to
see your insights turned into real products on a regular basis. The perfect
candidate will have a background in a quantitative or technical field, will
have experience working with large data sets, and will have some experience in
data-driven decision making. You are scrappy, focused on results, a
self-starter, and have demonstrated success in using analytics to drive the
understanding, growth, and success of a product. These positions are located in
our Menlo Park, Seattle, and New York offices.

Responsibilities

  • Apply your expertise in quantitative analysis, data mining, and the
    presentation of data to see beyond the numbers and understand how our users
    interact with our core/business products
  • Partner with Product and Engineering teams to solve problems and identify
    trends and opportunities
  • Inform, influence, support, and execute our product decisions and product
    launches.
  • The Data Scientist Analytics role has work across the following four areas:
  • Data Infrastructure
      □ Working in hadoop and hive primarily, sometimes mysql, oracle, and
        vertica
      □ Authoring pipelines via SQL and python based ETL framework
      □ Building key data sets to empower operational and exploratory analysis
      □ Automating analyses
  • Product Operations
      □ Setting goals
      □ Designing and evaluating experiments monitoring key product metrics,
        understanding root causes of changes in metrics
      □ Building and analyzing dashboards and reports
  • Exploratory Analysis
      □ Proposing what to build in the next roadmap
      □ Understanding ecosystems, user behaviors, and long-term trends
      □ Identifying levers to help move key metrics
      □ Evaluating and defining metrics
      □ Building models of user behaviors for analysis or to power production
        systems
  • Product Leadership
      □ Influencing product teams through presentation of work
      □ Communicating of state of business, experiment results, etc to product
        teams
      □ Spreading best practices to analytics and product teams

Minimum Qualifications

  • 4+ years experience doing quantitative analysis.
  • BA/BS in Computer Science, Math, Physics, Engineering, Statistics or other
    technical field. Advanced degrees preferred.
  • Experience in SQL or other programming languages.
  • Development experience in at least one scripting language (PHP, Python,
    Perl, etc.)
  • Ability to initiate and drive projects to completion with minimal guidance
  • Ability to communicate the results of analyses in a clear and effective
    manner
  • Basic understanding of statistical analysis.
  • Preferred experience with a statistical package such as R, MATLAB, SPSS,
    SAS, Stata, etc.
  • Preferred experience with an Internet-based company.
  • Experience with large data sets and distributed computing (Hive/Hadoop) a
    plus.

Apply
Facebook is proud to be an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action employer.
We do not discriminate based upon race, religion, color, national origin, sex
(including pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions), sexual
orientation, gender, gender identity, gender expression, transgender status,
sexual stereotypes, age, status as a protected veteran, status as an individual
with a disability, or other applicable legally protected characteristics.
If you need assistance or an accommodation due to a disability, you may contact
us at accommodations-ext@fb.com or you may call us at 1+650-308-7837.
Apply

Please limit to 3 applications.

Other positions in Analytics

  • Business Integrity Associate - Data Operations
    (Singapore)
  • Data Scientist, Analytics
    (London)
  • Data Scientist, Analytics - New Grad London
    (London)
  • Director, Recruiting Analytics
    (Menlo Park)
  • Growth Marketing Analyst, Internationalization
    (Menlo Park)
  • Instagram Optimization Analyst
    (Menlo Park)
  • Market Strategist
    (Menlo Park)
  • Marketing Intelligence Solutions Engineer
    (Menlo Park)
  • Principal Researcher, Facebook Media Lab
    (New York)
  • Product Researcher
    (Menlo Park - New York)

Back to all jobs
Facebook © 2017Nederlands
Over ons
BedrijfsgegevensOnze Facebook-paginaRedactieVacatures
Instructies
HelpcentrumAlgemene informatie over privacyEen pagina makenMaak een advertentie
Ons beleid
gegevensbeleidVoorwaarden en beleidCookies
Meer informatiebronnen
Veiligheidscentrum voor familiesFacebook for BusinessFacebook voor
ontwikkelaars
