Back To Openings
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Data Scientist

Department: Software Group
Location:   White River Junction, VT

RSG is seeking an experienced analyst to join the data science function within
RSG that supports analytics throughout all of the consulting practices in the
company. The company performs market research, data analysis, and quantitative
model development for public and private sector clients in transportation and
consumer goods markets. This position will be based in our White River
Junction, VT office.

AS A DATA SCIENTIST

You solve challenging technical problems, develop tools for process and
analysis efficiency, advance analytical methods and share knowledge under the
direction of a senior data scientist in partnership with teams across the
company. Your work contributes to the technical and analytical aspects of
research and predictive modeling projects, including the development and
implementation of experimental designs, the estimation of statistical models
and the development of model application tools and software.

You are a self-motivated team player with practical skills in data
manipulation, analysis design, and generating insights. You are resourceful,
proactive, innovative, and a clear and creative thinker, interested in using
data and analytics to support decision making across a variety of domains.

REQUIRED QUALIFICATIONS

  • Master’s degree or equivalent experience in a quantitative field such as
    data science, mathematics, statistics, predictive analytics or a similarly
    relevant field of study
  • 3+ years of experience and demonstrated skill in data science, or similar
    field using advanced analytic methods and tools
  • Solid understanding of and proficiency with Python, R and/or SQL
  • Efficient manager of workflows and processes with the proven ability to
    manage multiple competing projects, priorities, and deadlines
  • Proficient in statistical analysis, data management and presentation

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS

  • Transportation modeling experience
  • Market Research experience
  • Choice Modeling experience
  • Data Visualization experience

Periodic travel is required. RSG is not currently accepting H-1B applicants for
this position.

TO APPLY

Please visit our employment page: http://rsginc.com/join-us

RSG creatively applies state-of-the-art data modeling and analytics to
transportation planning, market strategy, environmental management, and custom
software development, helping organizations make critical decisions with
confidence. Since our founding by professors in 1986, RSG has provided
actionable insights through the skilled application of innovative techniques
and tools to serve a broad portfolio of public and private sector clients
locally, regionally, nationally and internationally. RSG is a 100%
employee-owned company with an award-winning culture recognized by the Families
and Work Institute, Society for Human Resource Management, and the Great Place
to Work Institute®. We offer employees excellent benefits, flexible hours, a
commitment to creating a sustainable workplace, and opportunities for
advancement, and are an equal-opportunity/affirmative-action employer. Please
visit www.rsginc.com for more information.

START YOUR APPLICATION
[filegen]

Applicant Tracking System Powered by ClearCompany HRM Applicant Tracking System

