Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Python Developer - Trade Data Analysis

Python Developer - Trade Data Analysis

Category 
    Software Development

More information about this job

Overview

GTS is a 100+ person and growing quantitative (proprietary) trading firm with a
well-regarded and competitive technology operation. A market maker in equities,
ETF’s, commodities, futures, foreign exchange and interest rate products. We
are the largest Designated Market Maker on the New York Stock Exchange
responsible for over 11 Trillion dollars of market capitalization. By investing
in the latest technologies and leveraging our experience across market regimes,
we bring consistency, efficiency, and transparency to today's markets.

Responsibilities

We are looking for an Python developer with a passion for solving complex
problems to join our Trading Analytics team.  In this role you will have the
opportunity to take ownership of a high-volume data-processing solution, which
performs daily compliance verification of the firm’s trading activities across
all asset classes.  You will Develop and maintain our off-line data-processing
system crunching billions of records per-day to calculate firm-wide accounting
metrics such as profit and loss.  Collect, analyze and merge diverse historic
trading activity and financial data from multiple sources; and work closely
with our trading model developers and management to investigate potential
breaks and discrepancies.

Qualifications

The ideal candidate will have:

  • 4+ years of expert level Python is a prerequisite
  • Excellent analytical, diagnostic, and communication skills
  • Desire to be part of a tight-knit engineering team working on cutting edge
    data processing systems
  • CS or EE educational background, with strong competences in data
    structures, algorithms and operating systems
  • Process oriented with a demonstrated ability to work independently and in a
    team environment
  • U.S. work authorization required

Nice to haves

  • Linux scripting experience with a focus on data processing utilities, such
    as grep, awk, sed, cut, and sort
  • Programming experience with C/C++
  • Experience developing for and/or managing a Hadoop based cluster (or
    experience with similar Big Data technologies)
  • Experience with building high-volume data processing systems

Our culture is low-key, collaborative and operate under a flat structure. We're
proud to employ some of the best talent in the industry who tackle the most
challenging problems in the world. While we work hard, our business casual
dress code, stocked pantry, free meals and full family healthcare (company
sponsored (fully paid) benefits reflect the emphasis we place on quality of
life.

 

If you feel you meet these qualification and interested in learning more about
this opportunity, please contact recruiting@gtsx.com or apply via our website.

Options

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Go back to the welcome page
