Classy logotype steel
Apply Now

Data Science Internship - Summer 2017

at Classy
San Diego Headquarters

About Classy:

Classy is an online fundraising platform built for the most innovative and
groundbreaking nonprofits in the world. Our goal is to not only help
organizations raise more money online, but also help them interact and engage
with supporters in creative ways they never deemed possible.

Classy is a VC-backed San Diego startup with triple-digit revenue growth and
customer retention that beats the world’s top SaaS companies. We’re the market
leader in peer-to- peer fundraising, and our products are used by thousands of
social impact organizations, including Oxfam America, Leukemia & Lymphoma
Society, and Heifer International.

Our team is growing, and we are hungry and hiring to meet the incredible demand
of our clients.

Our culture is and will always be fun, exciting, and results-driven. Our
nonprofit clients deserve a technology solution—and a team— that can help them
transform the online fundraising experience and change the world, and we’d love
for you to be a part of it.

Position description:

We want you to help us establish Classy as THE thought leader in social impact
and fundraising. Help us build our dataset and leverage it to publish reports
and prototype tools that support awesome organizations in achieving their
goals.

We’re looking for a data science intern (3 months) who is a self-starter and
has experience driving their own data science project. Be comfortable with:

  • Using a common scripting language (e.g. Python, R) to access data sources
    (database, csv, json APIs, web scraping), clean, and cross-reference data.
  • Using appropriate statistical / machine-learning methods to analyze the
    data
  • Publishing insights (visualizations and text, internal presentations &
    blogging)
  • Prototyping tools to expose these insights internally and/or externally (to
    non-profit organizations)

You will be guided at each step of the way by a small, talented team of
developers, analysts, and data scientists, but you'll also need a strong,
independent work ethic to complete meaningful projects during the internship.
Potential projects include:

  • What factors predict whether a fundraising campaign is successful?
  • How do we identify our top fundraising users as early as possible?
  • What charities are most likely to succeed on our platform?
  • How much does social impact matter for fundraising?
  • Can we automatically score how good a user’s text and images are for
    fundraising?
  • Much, much more!

You will have chances to learn new skills, give and receive feedback on
projects, work with our unique in-house dataset, and discover new insights in
how Classy can best support organizations to do good in the world.

Requirements

  • Currently enrolled in or recently graduated from a Bachelor's, Master's, or
    Ph.D program
  • Work experience in programming, data science, machine learning (preferably
    all three).
  • Completion of one or more self-led data science projects (the more diverse
    the data sources, the better!)
  • Great attitude
  • Eagerness to learn
  • Motivated self-starter
  • Excellent communicator
  • No freshman applicants please

Our awesome perks!

  • Half-Day Fridays the first Friday of each month
  • Monthly parking pass or public transit pass
  • Monthly happy hours at the local watering hole
  • Love the active life? We have company and team outings and participate in
    team sports.

Apply for this Job
* Required
(Optional)
Almost there! Review your information then click 'Submit Application' to apply.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
First Name * [                    ]
Last Name * [                    ]
Email * [                    ]
Phone * [                    ]
Location (City) * [                    ]
Resume/CV *
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
Cover Letter
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
LinkedIn Profile (paste link)
[                    ]
Website
[                    ]
How did you hear about this job? *
[                    ]
Please describe your work experience in programming, data science, and/or
machine learning. *
[                    ]
I do not require sponsorship now or in the future. *
[ ]  True
[ ]  False
By typing my name below I have reviewed this application personally, and I
agree that all statements I have made on this application, in my resume, and
other supplementary materials submitted by me are true and correct. I
understand that any misrepresentation or omission of facts may be cause for a
refusal to hire me or the termination of employment at any time during the
period of my employment. I authorize Classy to verify, in any manner, all
statements made by me. I authorize any and all former employers, references, or
educational institutions to release all information relevant to my employment
or education to Classy, without giving me prior notice.  *
[                    ]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Application consent for Classy

By clicking the “I Accept” button you expressly make the following
representations and warranties and give your consents as described below:

Classy collects your personal data for the purposes of managing Classy’s
recruitment related activities as well as for organizational planning purposes
globally. Consequently, Classy may use your personal data in relation to the
evaluation and selection of applicants including for example setting up and
conducting interviews and tests, evaluating and assessing the results thereto
and as is otherwise needed in the recruitment processes including the final
recruitment.

Classy does not disclose your personal data to unauthorized third parties.
However, as a global corporation consisting of multiple affiliated companies in
various countries, Classy has international sites and Classy uses resources
located throughout the world. Classy may from time to time also use third
parties to act on Classy’s behalf. You agree to the fact that to the extent
necessary your personal data may be transferred and/or disclosed to any company
within Classy group of companies as well as to third parties acting on Classy’s
behalf, including also transfers to servers and databases outside the country
where you provided Classy with your personal data. Such transfers may include
for example transfers and/or disclosures outside the European Economic Area and
in the United States of America.

[ ]  I Accept
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
[Submit Application]
Share this job:  
Powered by  Greenhouse Logo
Read our Privacy Policy
