Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Associate Data Scientist

Associate Data Scientist

Job ID 
    9093

Job Location 
    US-DC

Job Location 
    United States

Alternate locations  
    ..

Category 
    Research

More information about this job:

Overview:

The American Institutes for Research (AIR) is one of the largest behavioral and
social science research organizations in the world. AIR is a collaborative
organization that works with clients to examine a wide range of projects from
early childhood development to adult education as well as individual and
organizational performance. AIR prides itself in conducting high-impact,
high-stakes projects for significant federal, state, and private organizations.
AIR's vision is that research-based problem solving can improve the lives of
all people.

The Associate Data Scientist contributes to specific objectives and outcomes as
directed. Works independently on tasks with some latitude for independent
judgment. Core skills with moderate level of proficiency. Consults with senior
peers on technical and research issues.

Responsibilities:

? Support efforts to collect, compile, validate, interpret, and analyze data
and trends using standard practices and techniques
? Supports computer modeling or simple to moderately complex forecasting using
standard software packages
? Support to quantitative and/or qualitative analysis techniques and methods
? Work independently and in teams on moderately complex assignments under
indirect supervision
? Coordinate project support needs and requests for senior management and
clientele
? Conduct literature reviews and write sections of proposals and deliverables
? Develop systems for maintaining and checking the accuracy of data for
assigned projects
? Utilize external resources to supplement, organize, and contribute to tasks
and projects
? Present and occasionally support and organize content in internal and
external meetings
? Remain up-to-date on and provide suggestions for new technologies that can be
used to perform work
? Review and optimize others? programming code
? Provide innovative and suitable solutions to complex problems

Qualifications:

? A Bachelor?s degree with at least two years? experience or a Master?s degree
in a field with quantitative emphasis (e.g., Computer Science, Statistics,
Economics, Engineering, Mathematics, Bioinformatics) is required
? Master?s degree in a field with quantitative emphasis (e.g., Computer
Science, Statistics, Economics, Engineering, Mathematics, Bioinformatics) is
preferred
? Experience with word processing and spreadsheet software is required
? Experience with one programming language is required. This may include
statistical software like, STATA, or R
? Experience with a general purpose programming language (e.g., Python, Java)
is strongly preferred
? Experience with database software (e.g., MySQL, MS SQL Server) is a plus
? Comfortable with solution-focused problem solving and thinking through
problems creatively
? Strong background in statistical and mathematical modeling
? Excellent attention to detail
? Willingness to travel as needed

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
Please note, each section of the application is required in order for you to be
considered for this opportunity. If you do not complete the required screening
questions, or if you close your browser before completing each section of the
application, your application will not be submitted for this position.
#Go back to the welcome page
