   
    [9b24d503-1]   

  Join our Talent Network!

  Thanks for your interest!  Are you passionate about the work you do,
  curious by nature and enjoy working in a team environment?  If the answer
  is yes, please fill out the information below to receive updates from
  Precima!
  
  If you're not interested in updates, simply click skip & continue to begin
  your application.


   
   *First Name    [                    ]
   *Last Name     [                    ]
   *Primary Email [                    ]
   Resume         [                    ]

   [Save & Continue]  [Skip & Continue]


  Job Description:
  ....  read more -->>
  Description About Precima   Precima applies shopper insights derived from
  advanced analytics to help retailers and manufacturers drive sales growth
  and boost profitability. Using
  Description


  About Precima

   

  Precima applies shopper insights derived from advanced analytics to help
  retailers and manufacturers drive sales growth and boost profitability.
  Using comprehensive fact bases of purchase data, Precima's experts help you
  improve your marketing and merchandising, identify opportunities for growth
  and align both internal teams and external partners to best meet shoppers'
  needs

   

  Precima tailors the scope and pace of its solutions to the unique
  priorities of each client. The overall goal is to achieve not just tactical
  wins but long - term strategic gains, encouraging retailers to broaden the
  marketing agenda and fully explore the potential of sophisticated shopper
  insights.

   

  Precima's roster of past and current clients includes many leading Fortune
  1000 brands, among them some of the top high-frequency retailers in North
  America. Backed by first-hand experience with leading retail and
  manufacturing organizations, the Precima team brings a remarkable blend of
  expertise in loyalty, analytics, marketing and management to help you make
  more informed and profitable business decisions. 

                                        

  About the Opportunity

   

  The Sr. Data Scientist will provide process execution leadership to support
  client projects.  The person will be accessing, analyzing and interpreting
  point-of-sale, merchandising and marketing data on behalf of Precima
  clients to implement advanced predictive models leveraging statistics,
  mathematics and econometrics to support business objectives in
  merchandising and marketing such as price optimization, assortment
  optimization, target audience selection, marketing campaign design and
  execution, and marketing mix optimization. 

   

  This role is an integral part of the Research and Development Team. The
  successful candidate will have relevant B2B and retail industry experience
  and expert capabilities in statistical and econometric modeling in advanced
  analytics applications. The candidate will understand the business needs of
  a B2B, retailer or CPG client as well as the appropriate analytical
  approaches to merchandising and marketing problems encountered by these
  clients.


  This role is located in Chicago, Illinois                                    

   

  Responsibilities

   

  • Implement advanced statistical and econometric models of pricing,
  assortment and marketing mix. Provide analytical consulting on best
  practices and approaches

  • Interpret, document and present/communicate analytical results to
  multiple business disciplines, providing conclusions and recommendations
  based on customer-centric data. Be an internal expert in advanced
  capabilities

  • Work closely with clients and client teams to develop methodology and
  implement analysis and technology that enables more profitable pricing,
  assortment and marketing/promotion decisions in support of partner customer
  strategies

  • Take analytical objectives and define data requirements. Extract, clean,
  and transform customer and item-level data for purposes of analysis,
  modeling/segmentation and reporting

  • Identify, develop and make recommendations for process improvements and
  best practices; own implementation of recommendations required

  • Take analytical objectives and define data requirements. Extract, clean,
  and transform customer and item-level data for purposes of analysis,
  modeling/segmentation and reporting

  • Identify, develop and make recommendations for process improvements and
  best practices; own implementation of recommendations required

  • Execute on Precima’s engagement with Clients, delivering on our
  commitments and assisting the client to understand and derive the most
  value out of Precima-provided initiatives and tools

  • Continually support a strategic viewpoint as subject matter experts vs.
  data support to client

  Qualifications


  Qualifications

   

  • PhD or Master Degree in Statistics, Operations Research, Mathematics,
  Economics, Econometrics, Industrial Engineering, or Computer Science

  • Minimum of 4 years of directly related work experience in Econometric
  Modeling or Marketing Analytics

  • Expert proficiency in developing original statistical and econometric
  models in pricing, assortment and marketing mix to support clients in B2B,
  Retail and CPG areas.

  • Expert proficiency in implementing models in #1 using SAS or R

  • Advanced knowledge of Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint

  • Basic knowledge of Visio and Access

  • Working knowledge of C++/C# and SQL

  • Basic knowledge of Visio and Access

   

  Alliance Data is an Equal Employment Opportunity employer. Accordingly, we
  will make reasonable accommodations to respond to the needs of people with
  disabilities in accordance with legislation.


  ....  read more -->>


  Terms and Conditions | Privacy Statement

  Connect with Us!
  [9f4fba25-c][992c740e-9][ad28bd4c-a][529d2d86-d][948c9]
  Internal use only: [ADSLOY-TF-311]
  
   
