Skip Navigation
Capital One - US Main menu

  * Teams & Roles
  * Life at Capital One

Job Details

Data Scientist Intern - University of Illinois - Urbana-Champaign

Apply now Job ID R16447 Date posted 12/22/2016 Locations McLean, Virginia
San Francisco, California
Plano, Texas
New York, New York
Chicago, Illinois
McLean 1 (19050), United States of America, McLean, Virginia

At Capital One, we?re building a leading information-based technology company.
Still founder-led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank,
Capital One is on a mission to help our customers succeed by bringing
ingenuity, simplicity, and humanity to banking. We measure our efforts by the
success our customers enjoy and the advocacy they exhibit. We are succeeding
because they are succeeding.                                               

Guided by our shared values, we thrive in an environment where collaboration
and openness are valued. We believe that innovation is powered by perspective
and that teamwork and respect for each other lead to superior results. We
elevate each other and obsess about doing the right thing. Our associates serve
with humility and a deep respect for their responsibility in helping our
customers achieve their goals and realize their dreams. Together, we are on a
quest to change banking for good.

Data Scientist Intern - University of Illinois - Urbana-Champaign

At Capital One, we?re building a leading information-based technology company.
Still founder-led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank,
Capital One is on a mission to help our customers succeed by bringing
ingenuity, simplicity, and humanity to banking. We measure our efforts by the
success our customers enjoy and the advocacy they exhibit. We are succeeding
because they are succeeding.


Guided by our shared values, we thrive in an environment where collaboration
and openness are valued. We believe that innovation is powered by perspective
and that teamwork and respect for each other lead to superior results. We
elevate each other and obsess about doing the right thing. Our associates serve
with humility and a deep respect for their responsibility in helping our
customers achieve their goals and realize their dreams. Together, we are on a
quest to change banking for good.

As a Data Scientist at Capital One, you?ll be part of a high-performing team
that?s embracing the latest in computing technologies to unlock opportunities
that help everyday people save money and improve their financial lives.

You'll help our customers solve their financial services challenges by using
groundbreaking techniques.  You'll make valuable contributions from day one by
continuously learning, engaging in diverse sets of experiences and building
close-knit relationships across the company.

On any given day you might:

  * Evaluate open source and internally-developed modeling and analytics tools
    using real business data
  * Integrate internal data with external data sources and APIs to discover
    actionable insights
  * Design and craft rich data visualizations to extract insights and
    communicate stories to customers and company leadership


We'd love to find someone who is?
1. Curious. You ask why, you explore, and you are excited to imagine and create
new ideas by inventing self-adaptive models or by tapping into unstructured
data sources. You're also excited to try new tools or technologies.
2. Data Savvy. You are passionate about moving data from a database or an API
and transforming it into everyday language.
3. A do-er. You love trying new things, even if you sometimes fail.

Are you ready to join a community of people like you - ones who embrace
customer problems and use their passion and capabilities to make a difference
every single day?

Basic Qualifications:
? Have obtained or will obtain a master?s or PhD degree in a quantitative field
of study between December 2017 and August 2018
? At least 6 months of experience or course work in open source programming
languages for data analysis
? At least 6 months of experience or course work in inferential statistics or
machine learning


Preferred Qualifications:
? Direct experience with either Python or R, plus one other general purpose
programming language such as Java or C/C++
? Experience or course work with relational databases
? Experience or course work with large scale data analysis

This is a paid internship.

No agencies please. Capital One is an Equal Opportunity Employer committed to
diversity in the workplace. All qualified applicants will receive consideration
for employment without regard to gender, race, color, age, national origin,
religion, disability, genetic information, marital status, sexual orientation,
gender identity/assignment, citizenship, pregnancy or maternity, protected
veteran status, or any other status protected by applicable national, federal,
state or local law Capital One promotes a drug-free workplace. Capital One will
consider for employment qualified applicants with a criminal history in a
manner consistent with the requirements of applicable laws regarding criminal
background inquiries, including, to the extent applicable, Article 23-A of the
New York Correction Law; San Francisco, California Police Code Article 49,
Sections 4901-4920; New York City?s Fair Chance Act; Philadelphia?s Fair
Criminal Records Screening Act; and other applicable federal, state, and local
laws and regulations regarding criminal background inquiries.

If you require an accommodation to apply for a job or to perform a job, please
contact Capital One Recruiting at 1-800-304-9102 or
RecruitingAccommodation@capitalone.com.

All information you provide will be kept confidential and will be used only to
the extent required to provide needed reasonable accommodations.

For technical support or questions about Capital One's recruiting process,
please send an email to Careers@capitalone.com

Capital One does not provide, endorse nor guarantee and is not liable for
third-party products, services, educational tools or other information
available through this site.

Capital One Financial is made up of several different entities. Please note
that any position posted in Canada is for Capital One Canada, any position
posted in the United Kingdom is for Capital One Europe and any position posted
in the Philippines is for Capital One Philippines Service Corp. (COPSSC).

Apply now

Share This Job

  * Twitter
  * Facebook
  * LinkedIn
  * Email

 

Our Location

Job alerts

Sign up here for job alerts and other communications from Capital One.

Email Address[                    ]

Interested InSearch for a category and select one from the list of suggestions.
Search for a location and select one from the list of suggestions. Finally,
click ?Add? to create your job alert.

Category[                    ]

Location[                    ]

Add

  * Data Science, McLean, Virginia, United StatesRemove
  * Data Science, San Francisco, California, United StatesRemove
  * Data Science, Plano, Texas, United StatesRemove
  * Data Science, New York, New York, United StatesRemove
  * Data Science, Chicago, Illinois, United StatesRemove
  * Product Innovators, McLean, Virginia, United StatesRemove
  * Product Innovators, San Francisco, California, United StatesRemove
  * Product Innovators, Plano, Texas, United StatesRemove
  * Product Innovators, New York, New York, United StatesRemove
  * Product Innovators, Chicago, Illinois, United StatesRemove
  * Remove

Confirm Email [                    ]

[Sign up]

Similar Jobs

  * Business Manager Plano, Texas, Chicago, Illinois
  * Business Manager Plano, Texas
  * Sr Manager, Quantitative Analysis McLean, Virginia

Search

Search Jobs

Keywords [                    ]

Location [                    ] [Use Location]

Radius [Radius  ]

Search

Match jobs to your LinkedIn profile. Welcome Back, Login

  * Investing in Communities

    Investing in Communities

  * More than just a bank

    More Than Just A Bank

  * Visit the Dallas Campus

    Dallas Campus

  * Twitter
  * Facebook
  * LinkedIn
  * YouTube
  * Glassdoor

Legal

  * Privacy
  * Security
  * Terms & Conditions
  * Patriot Act Cert. *
  * Service members Civil
  * Relief Act

Member FDIC

Equal Housing Lender

Capital One is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and
inclusion in the workplace. Capital One promotes a drug-free workplace.

All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without
regard to sex, race, color, age, national origin, religion, physical and mental
disability, genetic information, marital status, sexual orientation, gender
identity/assignment, citizenship, pregnancy or maternity, protected veteran
status, or any other status prohibited by applicable national, federal, state
or local law.

If you have visited our website in search of information on U.S. employment
opportunities or to apply for a position, and you require an accommodation,
please contact Capital One Recruiting at 1-800-304-9102 or via email at
RecruitingAccommodation@capitalone.com. All information you provide will be
kept confidential and will be used only to the extent required to provide
needed reasonable accommodations.

Capital One is a federally registered service mark. All rights reserved. Blank
Check? is a registered trademark of Capital One Services, LLC. Capital One does
not provide, endorse, nor guarantee and is not liable for third party products,
services, educational tools, or other information available through this site.

*Plugins required [ Adobe^?Reader^? ]

E-Verify? is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security
E-Verify

FORTUNE and FORTUNE 100 Best Companies to Work For are registered trademarks of
Time Inc. and are used under license.

From FORTUNE Magazine, March 15, 2016 ?2016 Time Inc. Used under license.

FORTUNE and Time Inc. are not affiliated with, and do not endorse products or
services of, Licensee.

Diversity works here Fortune 100
