Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Research Analyst

Research Analyst

Locations 
    US-MA-Waltham

Category 
    Research

Type 
    Regular Full-Time

Travel 
    ..

Classification 
    Exempt

Reporting To: 
    ..

More information about this job

Overview

About Aberdeen Group:

 

Aberdeen Group (www.aberdeenservices.com) is a is a recognized, established and
trusted brand and leading provider of marketing data products and services to
the technology and telecommunications industries in North America, Europe and
Latin America. Clients use our research data, analytics and content to drive a
variety of sales and marketing programs including telemarketing, direct mail,
e-Mail marketing, market segmentation, territory planning, and more. Our
clients succeed with our information because it shortens their sales cycles and
improves the effectiveness of their marketing campaigns. We have the only
integrated data science and content solution of its kind. And we have the
people, the expertise and the success stories to back it up. In this world,
there are leaders and followers, and our global Aberdeen Group team are
definitely leaders.

 

Aberdeen Group is currently searching for qualified Research Analysts to join
our growing content team in Boston. Our Research Analysts conduct high-quality,
primary market research designed to identify high-performance operations and
line of business best practices and enabling technologies. The Research
Analysts will present findings in written, spoken, and multimedia formats as
leading industry thought leaders in areas including:

  • Supply chain management
  • Global supply management
  • Manufacturing
  • Retail
  • Information Technology
  • Enterprise Mobility / Communications
  • Financial Management
  • Sales Effectiveness & Enablement
  • Marketing Effectiveness
  • Customer Engagement
  • Service Management
  • Human Capital Management

Essential Functions & Responsibilities

 

  • Establish market-sensitive research agenda that relates to critical
    operational topics and functions
  • Personally conduct vendor briefings, web surveys, and end-user interviews
    to collect primary market intelligence and build market credibility.
  • Consistently deliver speculative and made-to-order content in multiple form
    factors – short- and long-form papers, blogs, videos, speeches, webinars,
    eBooks – at an accelerated pace that both creates and satisfies market
    demand.
  • Actively collaborate with Aberdeen teams that support Research – Content,
    Sales, Editorial, Marketing, and Operations – to source, nurture, and
    establish vendor client relationships.
  • Maintain a high level of expertise and currency in line of business
    functions, following technology changes and industry trends, including an
    active social media presence.
  • Assist in building long-term relationships with technology vendors and
    end-user organizations alike.
  • Consistently meet revenue and production goals in collaboration with sales,
    editorial, and marketing colleagues.

Qualifications

Experience, Skills and Education:

 

  • Bachelor’s degree or higher with 5+ years’ directly relevant work
    experience in operational roles.
  • Proven background in product marketing or management, and / or B2B field
    marketing, preferably in a software or services environment, ideally one
    that targets the operations space.
  • Exceptional writing skills with proven experience in publishing to
    timelines.
  • Capable of translating technology into business benefits and plans in
    simple terms.
  • Outstanding interpersonal and communication skills, with professionals at
    all levels.
  • Strong familiarity with business operations, business planning and B2B IT
    applications.

 

 Professional Capabilities (areas of skills or knowledge required for success)

 

  • Strong knowledge of line of business market dynamics and industry trends.
  • Deep understanding of the enterprise technology space and key vendors.
  • Proven track record building relationships with manufacturing, supply
    chain, and retail professionals.
  • Practical experience as a line of business professional a plus.
  • Understanding of quantitative and qualitative research concepts and tools,
    particularly survey-based research.
  • Appreciation of how software marketing executives in vendor companies use
    research findings in content marketing campaigns, to drive market education
    and awareness, create demand, arm the sales force, and expand the current
    client base.

Options

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs
