Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist

Data Scientist

Job ID 
    2016-1321

# of Openings 
    1

Job Locations 
    US-PA-Malvern

Category 
    IT

Experience Level 
    Intermediate

More information about this job:

Overview:

Frontline Education is a leading provider of SaaS solutions for educators and
administrators across the United States. We currently partner with over 7,500
school districts whose professionals and staff use our premier software
solutions on a daily basis. In 2015, we were recognized by INC. Magazine as one
of the fastest growing private companies in North America. Our unprecedented
growth has created a number of new opportunities across the company.
 Currently, we are looking for an individual to lead our Frontline Research &
Learning Institute data analytics and insights initiatives.


Reporting to the Director of Technology, the Data Scientist is responsible for
driving the forward-looking strategy of our business intelligence and data
analytics and insights team.  Working collaboratively with the Managing
Director of the Frontline Research and Learning Institute, you will assist in
defining data warehouses, deriving insights, assisting the data management team
to build ETL processes, defining KPIs, as well as selecting and implementing
reporting toolsets.

Responsibilities:

Key Performance Objectives:

  • Develop a deep understanding of Frontline applications data sets and how
    the cross-application data relates to each other.
  • Work with the Data Management team to complete the data warehouse(s) for
    the all Frontline products.
  • Define and deliver key insights from the data warehouse for the purpose of
    publishing to the Research Learning Institute.

 

The Ideal Profile:

  • Demonstrable experience. You’ve “been there, done that” when it comes to
    deriving data insights, and building data environments to support
    in-application and ad-hoc report delivery.
  • Data, Data, and More Data. You have a passion for what insights data can
    provide. Getting your first result set prompts more questions than provides
    answers, and this motivates you, not defeats you.

Qualifications:

Requirements:

  • Data analysis and organizational skills are among your top strengths.
  • Strong background in cross-functional project management.
  • You have 7+ years in the field of data analytics and data management.
  • You have earned a Bachelor’s Degree or higher

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

