Skip Navigation
TD AMERITRADE SERVICES Menu

  • Careers
  • Corporate
  • Locations
  • About Us
  • Students

Find a job
at TD Ameritrade.

Find a job at TD Ameritrade.

Keywords [                    ]

Location [                    ] [Use Location]

Radius [Radius  ]

Search

Search jobs with your LinkedIn profile.

Sr Analyst, Analytics Lab

Apply Now Send to Email Save Job Remove Job View Saved Jobs

Quick Facts

Omaha, Nebraska ID# 108003 Full-Time Regular Second Level Professional

Role:

Works  with  business leaders and leaders of business analytics teams in
developing and delivering analytical work  with a primary focus on projects
supporting business growth.  This role requires a professional who can scope
and frame analytical questions and write the necessary codes and scripts to
deliver the analytical product.  This includes the ability to rapidly identify,
profile and transform as needed the relevant data to drive rapid insight.
The senior analyst will work as a business partner, focused on delivering
well-defined use cases that supports the application of the insights generated
to deliver business value.  This role will be responsible for facilitating the
prototyping and development of new and complex algorithms and models to improve
analytical capabilities to help produce better decision-making, business
outcomes, and client segmentation, and user personalization.
To stay current in this rapidly evolving space, the senior analyst will be
expected to be continually growing their knowledge of tools, techniques and
data sets and will participate in regular training from internal and external
providers on new tools and methods including specific technology and concept
investigations where appropriate.

Responsibilities:

  • Work closely with different business functions within TD Ameritrade team to
    identify and answer important business questions
  • Drive collection of new data sources and refine existing data source
  • Develop prototypes and solutions leveraging advanced statistical methods on
    selected technologies; analyze and interpret the results of the prototype
  • Develop and consult as a representative for the analyst community around
    data access, structures and models
  • Use data visualization tools and storytelling skills to highlight
    actionable conclusions from analytics work
  • Collaborate with analytical leads in Retail on using expanded data sets and
    query techniques to sustain alternative segmentation schemes
  • Participate in training sessions on approaches to Predictive and advanced
    descriptive analytics – expanding familiarity and usage of  techniques,
    algorithms, tools used for segmentation/clustering (grouping clients into
    meaningful and action-oriented classifications), data mining (discovering
    actionable correlations, pattern and trends by sifting through large data
    sets using various technologies and statistical techniques) and root cause
    analysis (problem solving that tries to identify the root causes of
    problems that create or prevent key activities or events)
  • Data visualization tools
  • Pilot test and evaluate various analytics products and tools
  • Tools for working with unstructured data and text analytics
  • Self-directed training and research (domain and technical)

Requirements:

  • Domain
      □ Understanding of brokerage business and core TDA data supporting
        primary business metrics
      □ Partner and consult with internal and external research and data
        scientist
      □ Support and consult cross functional project initiatives – data
        informed projects
      □ Presentation skills to deliver critical data and communicate the
        results of our engagements
  • Data Preparation and Profiling
      □ Understanding of the data warehouse and related data platforms.
      □ Develop/engineer new datasets and data models to support advanced/
        predictive analytics
      □ Analytical tools and programming languages – Tableau, Big Data tools,
        R, Python, SAS or other modeling language.
      □ Exploratory data analysis (EDA), data movement (ETL, ELT) and
        automation.
  • Data Science
      □ Advanced analytics, mathematical modeling, programming, data
        architecture,
      □ Data science as a full process.  Define and/or discover the business
        needs and appropriate use case, data collection and management, model
        development, deployment / maintenance, machine Learning,  data mining,
        and predictive analytics
      □ Associate must be familiar with all above areas (Domain, Data
        Preparation/Profiling, and Data Science)  and must be able to exhibit
        proficiency in at least 2 of the 3 areas.
  • Additional Minimal Requirements:
      □ Strong levels of curiosity and perseverance .  Must be a strong
        self-starter,  able to manage complex problems with indefinite
        outcomes.  Must be able to efficiently  manage the responsibilities of
        the engagements, communicating realistic schedules and  engagement
        status.
      □ Solid critical thinking skills to scope and frame an analytical
        problem.  Good communication abilities to uncover core analytical
        issues and propose efficient solutions.
      □ Good interpersonal skills to build strong relationships with analytics
        teams members within the business - to effectively  teach, coach and
        mentor these business partners
      □ 3-5 years total experience
      □ 2-4 years related experience
      □ 4 year college degree
      □ College degree emphasis in Business, Computer Science, Information
        Systems, Data Science, Engineering and Mathematics are preferred
      □ Military education or experience may be considered in lieu of civilian
        requirements listed

Apply Now Send to Email

Share This:

  • LinkedIn
  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Email
  • Reddit
  • Whatsapp

Google map

What's it like working at this location?

Learn More

two females

Our
Culture

Learn More

  • Finance Careers

    Finance & Accounting Careers

    Learn more

Sign Up for Job Alerts

Your Email Address[                    ]

Interested InSelect a job category from the list of options. Search for a
location and select one from the list of suggestions. Finally, click “Add” to
create your job alert.

Category[Select a Job Category     ]

Location[                    ]

Add

  • Finance, Omaha, Nebraska, United StatesRemove
  • Analyst, Omaha, Nebraska, United StatesRemove
  • Strategy, Omaha, Nebraska, United StatesRemove
  • Remove

Confirm Email [                    ]

[Sign Up]

Your Saved Jobs

You have not saved any jobs.

About TD Ameritrade.

A leader in brokerage and investment services for over 35 years, TD Ameritrade
offers a full spectrum of powerful solutions and innovative tools for trading
and investing. We're constantly expanding our knowledge and bolstering our
capabilities, from a leading active trader program to intuitive long-term
investment solutions and a national branch system. Combined with some of the
industry's brightest minds, there's no limit to how big our accomplishments can
be.

From first-time investors to sophisticated traders, TD Ameritrade is focused on
helping individuals seek out their financial goals. And you're the ambassador
to all that we do. Beginning with our trading platform and proprietary
technology to our resolve to outperform, you'll maintain the high level of
quality and integrity we're known for, each and every day. With the right
opportunity, there's no limit to what you can accomplish.

As a leading employer in financial services, we believe in building strong
relationships, achieving quality results and working with integrity. It's at
the heart of everything we do. That's why we provide you with comprehensive
training, benefits and programs that inspire you to achieve more every day.
Apply to a TD Ameritrade job today and help our clients pursue their dreams,
while you fulfill yours.

Applicants must be eligible to work in the U.S. Immigration sponsorship is
typically not available for this position.

TD Ameritrade participates in the E-Verify program. For additional information
on this program please click here. TD Ameritrade is an Equal Opportunity
Employer. We value diversity and offer a quality workplace. TD Ameritrade, Inc.
member FINRA/SIPC/NFA is a subsidiary of TD Ameritrade Holding Corporation
(NASDAQ:AMTD). TD Ameritrade is a trademark jointly owned by TD Ameritrade IP
Company and the Toronto-Dominion Bank.

© 2014 TD Ameritrade IP Company, Inc. All rights reserved. Used with
permission.

Read More

All about growth.

By virtue of what we do, our world is filled with numbers. Here are just a few
that we believe best describe TD Ameritrade at its finest.

  • 5,900 Full-time
    Employees

    Graphic 2 people
  • 100+Branches
    in 33 States

    Graphic 2 people
  • 96,000 Hours Volunteered to
    Community Programs

    Graphic 2 people

Values You Live. Careers That Inspire

TD Ameritrade Holding Corporation (NASDAQ:AMTD). Brokerage services provided TD
Ameritrade, Inc. and TD Ameritrade Clearing, Inc., members FINRA/SIPC,
subsidiaries of TD Ameritrade Holding Corporation. TD Ameritrade is a trademark
jointly owned by TD Ameritrade IP Company, Inc. and The Toronto-Dominion Bank.
© 2016 TD Ameritrade IP Company, Inc. All rights reserved. Used with
permission.

TD Ameritrade participates in the E-Verify program. For additional information
on this program please click here

TD Ameritrade is an Equal Opportunity Employer. At TD Ameritrade we believe
that People Matter. We value diversity and believe that it transcends race,
national origin, age, marital status, gender identity / expression, sexual
orientation, citizenship status, service in the armed forces, disability,
thoughts, ideas and perspectives. Our commitment to building an inclusive
culture is aimed at attracting and retaining diverse talent, clients and
shareholders to the firm. It’s a belief that’s core to the success of our
organization.

Follow TD Ameritrade

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • LinkedIn
  • Glassdoor

