?
Akamai Careers

  * Jobs
  * Help
  * University
  * Diversity

Settings

Note:

To ensure all pages of the application load correctly, please use Chrome as
your browser.

Data Scientist

? Cambridge, United States

 
?
    Network Operations

? ? ? ?
    Dec 16, 2016 Post Date

? ? ? ?
    005453 Requisition #

Apply for Job
Share this Job
Sign Up for Job Alerts
This is an opportunity to work with one of the foremost network operations
teams in the industry. By leading and performing complex analysis in a
continually evolving big data environment, the Data Analyst will provide
critical insight to aid in the management of Akamai?s network. This position
requires not only strong technical skills but strong interpersonal skills and
the ability to synthesize data in a manner actionable at many levels. As a Data
scientist you will be responsible for:
* Working closely with stakeholders ranging from senior management to engineers
on the front lines to understand the department?s needs and anticipate desired
outcomes
* Developing both short and long term data analysis strategies in a big data
environment to allow the Platform Operations team to be more proactive and
efficient
* Extracting and analyzing data from multiple large databases
* Focusing on solutions, dive into projects, and quickly identify drivers in
the data
* Identifying relevant trends, do follow-up analysis, prepare compelling
visualizations
* Completing projects that require data mining, analysis, and presentation in a
timely fashion


About the Team
The Akamai Platform Operations department is responsible for managing,
monitoring, and maintaining Akamai?s deployed network.  As part of the Platform
Operations Enablement Team, you will be working with a diverse collection of
individuals responsible for projects and programs that enable continuous
improvement within the Platform Operations department.  In particular, the
Platform Operations Enablement Team focuses on enabling and supporting
initiatives in analytics, quality, documentation, tools & automation,
compliance, disaster recovery, and program management.


Required Education and Experience
Applicants must meet one of the following education and experience
requirements: 
* 2 years of relevant experience and a Bachelor?s degree in Mathematics,
Computer Science or Computer Engineering or its equivalent or
* Relevant experience and a Master?s degree or PhD  or 
* Relevant Professional Experience

Required Skills
* 2 year(s) of experience with one or more of the following statistical
programing languages such as SAS, R, S+, etc. 
* 2 year(s) of experience with large distributed systems like MySQL, Cassandra
and Hadoop
* 1 year of experience with Python

Desired Skills
* Significant experience working with large datasets
* Strong background with machine learning
* Proficiency with business analysis and technical development
* Experience with report creation
* Excellent communication, interpersonal, organizational skills, and a
demonstrated history of high-level achievement in cross-functional
organizations
* Demonstrated ability to organize and present information in a consistent and
compelling manner
* Self-starter comfortable working either collaboratively or independently in a
diverse and fast-paced environment
* Strong work ethic and positive attitude


* Is relocation available for this position: No
* Is US Citizenship required: No
* Is a Security Clearance Required: No
If yes, applicants selected will be subject to a government security
investigation & must meet eligibility requirements for access to classified
information. 

Akamai Technologies is an Affirmative Action, Equal Opportunity Employer that
values the strength that diversity brings to the workplace. All qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment and will not be
discriminated against on the basis of gender, race/ethnicity, protected veteran
status, disability, or other protected group status. 


About Akamai Technologies

Akamai is the global leader in Content Delivery Network (CDN) services, making
the Internet business ready?fast, reliable, and secure?for its customers. The
company's advanced web performance, mobile performance, cloud security and
media delivery solutions are revolutionizing how businesses optimize consumer,
enterprise and entertainment experiences for any device, anywhere.
Headquartered in Cambridge, MA, Akamai has offices around the world and
operates the most pervasive, highly distributed CDN?with more than 200,000
servers in 110 or more countries?delivering up to 30% of all Web traffic. Learn
more at www.akamai.com/careers.


Akamai is a growing, and evolving, company with offices and operations around
the world. As such, we strive to foster inclusive and representative workplaces
where all employees are wholly welcome, and enabled to share and benefit from
each other?s diverse contributions, as one global team. Our commitment to
diversity reaches beyond our corporate offices, to our business partners and
suppliers who share the same principles, and whose employees we value as
integral to the Akamai business family. Learn more at www.akamai.com/diversity.


Akamai Technologies is an Affirmative Action, Equal Opportunity Employer that
values the strength that diversity brings to the workplace. All qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment and will not be
discriminated against on the basis of gender, race/ethnicity, protected veteran
status, disability, or other protected group status. If you'd like more
information about EEO rights under United States law, please click here.

[                    ]
My Profile

Create and manage profiles for future opportunities.

Go to Profile

My Submissions

Track your opportunities.

My Submissions

Similar Listings

Operations Engineer - Distributed Platform

? Cambridge, United States

? Network Operations

Post Date: Oct 04, 2016

System Operations Engineer - Distributed Platform

? Cambridge, United States

? Network Operations

Post Date: Oct 04, 2016

Technical Documentation Specialist

? Cambridge, United States

? Network Operations

Post Date: Oct 31, 2016

View More Listings

  * Jobs
  * Help
  * Sitemap
  * University
  * Diversity

? Akamai Careers. All rights reserved.
Akamai Careers
1 0
