Workplace Alaskalogo image
Menu
Close Menu
Workplace Alaskalogo image

Workplace Alaska

  • Workplace Alaska Hotline
  • for All Job Seekers
  • for State Employees
  • for Students
  • Class Specifications
  • Sign Up for Job Alerts
  • State of Alaska Applicant Help Guide
  • Help & Support

for All Job Seekers

Sign In
Username

  • 
  • Applications
  • Profile
  • Account
  • Sign Out

Welcome!

Thanks for creating an account.

Workplace Alaskalogo image

Workplace Alaska

powered by NEOGOV ®

Public Health Laboratory Scientist

Print
Apply

Public Health Laboratory Scientist

Salary
    $6,508.00 Monthly $6,508.00 Monthly

Location
    Anchorage, AK Anchorage, AK

Job Type
    Full Time

Department
    Health & Social Services

Job Number
    12042

Closing
    2/3/2017 5:00 PM Alaska

  • Description
  • Benefits

Job Description

    This individual position is EXEMPT from the hiring restrictions.
    Qualified applicants are encouraged to apply

    This recruitment is open to All Applicants.
    The position is in the Supervisory Union at a Range 22

    [Public]

    The Department of Health & Social Services, Division of Public Health is
    recruiting for a Public Health Laboratory Scientist
     
    Under general administrative direction, this position serves as a State's
    specialist, subject matter expert, and resource person for bioterrorism,
    emerging/reemerging infectious diseases, and molecular biology. This is a
    senior scientist level requiring a doctorate degree in medicine, life
    science, biochemistry, public health or laboratory medicine. Additionally,
    post-doctoral training, experience or Board Certification (or eligible) in
    molecular diagnostics and two years advanced professional experience
    designing scientific research, and reporting data. This incumbent is also
    the Principle Investigator for the Select Agent program.
     
    The preferred candidate will have the following Knowledge, skills &
    abilities:
      □ Considerable knowledge of the principles and practices of Laboratory
        research as related to the application of testing, detection, and
        assessment of emergent pathogens, infectious diseases, biological
        contaminants, and biotoxins.
      □ Thorough knowledge of applied research and ethics, and its use in
        public health programs.  
      □ Knowledge of scientific experimental design, data analysis, and
        scientific writing. 
      □ Skill in planning, directing, and executing major professional public
        health research studies. 
      □ Ability to formulate scientific and public health policy and guidance
        on issues for which conclusive data may not exist.  
      □ Ability to provide administrative guidance and leadership in planning,
        organizing, and directing difficult and complex major original and
        applied scientific research and/or diagnostic studies. 
      □ Ability to develop hypotheses, and to conceive, plan, conduct and
        report scientific and public health research.  
      □ Ability to plan, organize, and control projects and programs involving
        professional personnel. 
      □ Ability to supervise the work of others. 
      □ Ability to perform risk assessments in all laboratory work areas, and
        to work with hazardous materials including biological specimens
        containing potentially fatal pathogens, using the requisite safety
        measures and protective gear. 
      □ Ability to write technical procedural manuals, maintain accurate
        laboratory records, and convey appropriate information in
        understandable and precise terms. 
      □ Ability to communicate and work cooperatively with departmental
        personnel in planning and achieving community and departmental
        objectives.


    To view the general description and example duties for a
    Public Health Laboratory Scientist please go to the following link:
    https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/Alaska/classspecs

Minimum Qualifications

    A Doctor of Medicine (M.D.), Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.), Doctor
    of Science (D.Sc.), Doctor of Public Health (Dr.P.H.) or Ph. D. in
    microbiology, biology, molecular biology, biochemistry, public health,
    laboratory medicine, epidemiology, bacteriology, parasitology, mycology,
    virology, microscopy, proteomics, immunology, hematology, life sciences, or
    a closely related field;
    AND
    Two years of advanced professional experience designing and conducting
    biological, microbiological, biochemical, chemical, or closely related
    research and testing in a certified diagnostic laboratory utilizing a
    quality management system.
     
    Special Note:
    Incumbents will be required to pass an FBI security clearance as set forth
    in 7 CFR 131, 9 CFR 121, 42 CFR 73, Public Law 107-56 and Public Law
    107-188.  Pass Select Agents and Toxins Program Suitability Assessment and
    enhanced, annual and ongoing Suitability Assessment as set forth in 7 CFR
    131, 9 CFR 121, 42 CFR 73, Public Law 107-56 and Public Law 107-188.
     
    Incumbents may be required to serve on a rotating on-call standby roster
    and respond as necessary.
     
    Incumbents may be required to be vaccinated (unless medically
    contraindicated) against smallpox, anthrax, influenza, botulism, or other
    agents as determined by the CDC.

Additional Required Information

    At time of application, applicant must attach the following items. (If
    unable to attach, please fax or e-mail the items to the contact listed
    below prior to the closing date of this recruitment):
     1. A copy of academic transcripts, to verify post-secondary education used
        to meet the minimum qualifications. Transcripts are required with each
        application. (Unofficial are okay, please ensure that the institution
        name is listed on the transcripts).
     2. Cover letter.

    At the time of interview applicant must provide:
     1. Curriculum Vitae/Resume
     2. Three (3) professional employer references with current telephone
        numbers

    Please read the below information carefully. This applies to your
    application submission.
     

    COVER LETTER
    A cover letter is required. Please attach it as a separate document for
    this position. The cover letter should highlight your knowledge, skills,
    abilities, and experience as they pertain to the responsibilities listed in
    the job description above. Please attach the cover letter to your
    application before submitting it online or, if unable to attach to your
    application, fax it to the contact number provided in the job posting.  The
    cover letter will be used to help determine which applicants will advance
    to the interview phase of the recruitment and selection process.

    EDUCATION
    To verify education to meet the required minimum qualifications, you must
    fill in the Education section of the application. When a degree has not
    been received, please indicate the number of units completed. Copies of
    transcripts are required to verify educational credentials for this
    position.  Transcripts must be attached at the time of application.

    SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR FOREIGN EDUCATION
    Education completed in foreign colleges or universities may be used to meet
    the above requirements, if applicable. If utilizing this education you must
    show that the education credentials have been submitted to a private
    organization that specializes in interpretation of foreign educational
    credentials and that such education has been deemed to be at least
    equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education programs; or an
    accredited U.S. state university reports the other institution as one whose
    transcript is given full value, or full value is given in subject areas
    applicable to the curricula at the state university. It is your
    responsibility to provide such evidence when applying.

    WORK EXPERIENCE
    When using work experience not already documented in your application,
    please provide the employer name, your job title, dates of employment, and
    whether full-or part-time. Applications will be reviewed to determine if
    the responses are supported and minimum qualifications are clearly met. If
    they are not, the applicant may not advance to the interview and selection
    phase of the recruitment. NOTE: Attaching a resume is not an alternative to
    filling out the application in its entirety. Noting "see resume" or any
    similar response on any portion of your application may lead to a
    determination your application is incomplete and removal from consideration
    for this job posting.

    MULTIPLE VACANCIES
    This recruitment may be used for more than one (1) vacancy. The applicant
    pool acquired during this recruitment may be used for future vacancies for
    up to ninety (90) days after this recruitment closes. Interested applicants
    are encouraged to apply to each recruitment notice to ensure consideration
    for all vacancies.

    NOTICE
    Questions regarding the application process can be directed to the
    Workplace Alaska hotline at 800-587-0430 (toll free) or (907) 465- 4095. If
    you choose to be contacted by email, please ensure your email address is
    correct on your application and that the spam filter will permit email from
    the 'govermentjobs.com' domains.  For information on allowing emails from
    the 'governmentjobs.com' domains, visit the Lost Password Help page located
    at https://www.governmentjobs.com/js_lostpswd.cfm&topheader=alaska.

    EEO STATEMENT
    The State of Alaska complies with Title I of the Americans with
    Disabilities Act (ADA).Individuals with disabilities, who require
    accommodation, auxiliary aides or services, or alternative communication
    formats, please call 1-800-587-0430 or 465-4095 in Juneau or (907) 465-3412
    (TTY) or correspond with the Division of Personnel & Labor Relations at: P.
    O. Box 110201, Juneau, AK 99811-0201. The State of Alaska is an equal
    opportunity employer.

Contact Information

    WORKPLACE ALASKA APPLICATION QUESTIONS & ASSISTANCE
    Questions regarding application submission or system operation errors
    should be directed to the Workplace Alaska hotline at 1-800-587-0430 (toll
    free) or (907) 465-4095 if you are located in the Juneau area. Requests for
    information may also be emailed to recruitment.services@alaska.gov.

    For applicant password assistance please visit: https://
    www.governmentjobs.com/js_lostpswd.cfm?&topheader=alaska

    For specific information in reference to the position please contact the
    hiring manager at:

    Name:  Sandra Rasmussen, Administrative Officer II
    Phone: (907) 269-3422
    Fax: (907) 334-2161
    Email: Sandra.Rasmussen@alaska.gov

    [AK-State-S]
    Careers with the State of Alaska offer MANY benefits

    The following information describes typical benefits available to employees
    of the State of Alaska. Actual benefits received may differ by bargaining
    unit or branch of government, position type, or be prorated for other than
    full time work.

    Insurance Benefits
      □ Health insurance, which includes employer contributions toward medical/
        vision/dental
          ☆ The following employee groups are under AlaskaCare Benefits
            administered by the State:   See http://doa.alaska.gov/drb/programs
            /index.html for additional information.
              ○ AVTEC
              ○ Confidential
              ○ Correctional Officers
              ○ Marine Engineers
              ○ Mt. Edgecumbe Teachers
              ○ Supervisory
              ○ Unlicensed Vessel Personnel/Inland Boatman’s Union
              ○ Exempt employees (not covered by collective bargaining)
          ☆ The following employee groups are covered by Union health trusts. 
            Contact the appropriate Union for additional information.
              ○ General Government
              ○ Labor, Trades and Crafts
              ○ Public Safety Employees Association
              ○ Masters, Mates & Pilots
      □ Employer paid Basic Life insurance with additional coverage available
        (amount depends on Bargaining Unit)
    Optional Insurance Benefits
      □ Group-based insurance premiums for
          ☆ Term life (employee, spouse or qualified same sex partner, and
            dependents)
          ☆ Long-term and short-term disability
          ☆ Accidental Death and Dismemberment
          ☆ Long-term care (self and eligible family members)
          ☆ Supplemental Survivor Benefits
      □ Employee-funded flexible spending accounts for tax savings on eligible
        health care or dependent care expenses

    Retirement Benefits
      □ Membership in the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS)/Teachers’
        Retirement System (TRS)
      □ Matching employer contribution into a defined contribution program (new
        employees)
      □ Employer contribution into a defined benefit or defined contribution
        program (current employees)
      □ Contributions to the Alaska Supplemental Annuity Plan in lieu of
        contributions to Social Security
      □ Option to enroll in the Alaska Deferred Compensation Program
      □ Note:  The Defined Contribution Plan, Supplemental Annuity Plan and
        Deferred Compensation Program offer a variety of investment options
    See http://doa.alaska.gov/drb/retirement/index.html for additional
    information
     
    Paid Leave & Other Benefits
      □ Personal leave with an accrual rate increase based on time served
      □ Eleven paid holidays a year
      □ Gym discounts at participating fitness providers in multiple locations
        throughout the state.

    See http://doa.alaska.gov/drb/ghlb/employee/health/gymListing.html for
    additional information

Agency
    State of Alaska

Address

    PO Box 110201

    Juneau, Alaska, 99811.

Phone
    (800) 587-0430 (Statewide toll-free number)
    (907) 465-4095 (Juneau and out-of-state callers)

Website
    http://workplace.alaska.gov/

Apply
Your browser does not support the IFRAME feature, which is required by this web
page.
for All Job Seekers
Account
Copyright © 2017
[Workplace-]

Workplace Alaska

for All Job Seekers

Support
Workplace Alaska
Job Application
Job Details
Applying as: | Support
Close
Close
