Skip to Main Content
alternate_text_here

Toggle navigation

  • Home
  • Search Jobs
  • Create Account
  • Log In
  • Help

Programmer/Analyst Sr

Bookmark this Posting | Print Preview | Apply for this Job

Announcement

Details

   Open Date     12/13/2016
  Requisition    PRN13106B
     Number
   Job Title     Programmer/Analyst Sr
 Working Title   Programmer/Analyst Sr
   Job Grade     G
   FLSA Code     Computer Employee
Patient Care Job No
     Code?
 Standard Hours  40
    per Week
  Full Time or
   Part Time?
     Shift
 Work Schedule   TBD
    Summary
   Department    00246 - Human Genetics
    Location
      City
    Type of      External Posting
  Recruitment
 Pay Rate Range  60700 to 115300
   Close Date

NOTE: May close
  at anytime.
   Open Until
     Filled
                 Yes
NOTE: May close
  at anytime.
                 Responsible for performing professional Programmer/Analyst
                 assignments, including conducting analysis, maintenance,
                 design conversion and implementation of computer based
                 information systems to meet specified design requirements and
                 specifications.

                 The laboratory of Associate Professor Aaron Quinlan
                 (quinlanlab.org) at the University of Utah’s Department of
                 Human Genetics (genetics.utah.edu) is seeking an experienced
                 human genetics analyst. The candidate will lead the
                 application computational methods to multiple ongoing studies
                 of rare human disorders and cancer genome analysis. Applicants
                 should have a passion for solving complex problems and value
                 collaboration and teamwork while also being able to work
                 individually. The candidate will be expected to take a
                 leadership role in collaboration with other groups at the
                 University of Utah and other institutions; participate in the
                 training of graduate students; interact with software
                 engineers within the group; publish their work in
                 peer-reviewed journals; and present their work in national and
                 international meetings. We offer a competitive salary and
  Job Summary    benefits package for highly qualified candidates. This
                 position is available immediately.

                 We are committed to building a diverse laboratory and we
                 strongly encourage applications from female and minority
                 candidates.

                 The successful candidate will join a vibrant and collaborative
                 community of computational, clinical and experimental
                 scientists. The Eccles Institute of Human Genetics on the
                 University of Utah Medical School campus in Salt Lake City,
                 Utah lies at the interface between basic and clinical
                 sciences, creating ample opportunities for collaborations with
                 clinical researchers and easy access to high-valued clinical
                 datasets. The institution is set on the Wasatch front in Salt
                 Lake City and provides a unique recreational and geographical
                 landscape that attracts a very diverse and productive
                 scientific community.

                 For more information please contact Aaron Quinlan at
                 aquinlan@genetics.utah.edu.

                 Investigates standard system applications, prepares analysis
                 of system specifications and program coding. Translates
                 detailed design specifications into computer program
                 instructions, debugs routine programs, conducts systems test
                 data, prepares diagrams and over-all flow charts, prepares
                 statements of programs objectives and associated
                 documentation. Conducts programming tasks including data
                 manipulation, input and output routines reflecting a variety
                 of equipment configurations. Coordinates the interfaces
                 between major systems and programs. Responsible for Web
                 design, maintenance and updates. Prepares cost analysis and
                 justification of data processing systems. Presents
                 recommendations to management. Recommends system software
                 modifications or changes to hardware configurations.Career
                 level.

Responsibilities This job description is not designed to contain or be
                 interpreted as a comprehensive inventory of all duties,
                 responsibilities and qualifications required of employees
                 assigned to the job.

                 Work Environment and Level of Frequency typically required

                 Nearly Continuously: Office environment.

                 Physical Requirements and Level of Frequency that may be
                 required

                 Nearly Continuously: Sitting, hearing, listening, talking.

                 Often: Repetitive hand motion (such as typing), walking. 

                 Seldom: Bending, reaching overhead.

                 Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science, a related field or
                 equivalent experience. 5-8 years of experience.
    Minimum
 Qualifications  Applicants must demonstrate the potential ability to perform
                 the essential functions of the job as outlined in the position
                 description.

                 Preferences:
                 Ph.D. (or equivalent) and have: a background in genetics,
                 experience exploring modern DNA sequencing datasets, and
  Preferences    proficiency with UNIX and at least one programming language.

                 A high degree of organization and professionalism is also
                 preferred.

      Type       Benefited Staff

                 The University of Utah is an Affirmative Action/Equal
                 Opportunity employer and is committed to diversity in its
                 workforce. In compliance with applicable federal and state
                 laws, University of Utah policy of equal employment
                 opportunity prohibits discrimination on the basis of race or
                 ethnicity, religion, color, national origin, sex, age, sexual
                 orientation, gender identity/expression, veteran’s status,
                 status as a qualified person with a disability, or genetic
                 information. Individuals from historically underrepresented
                 groups, such as minorities, women, qualified persons with
                 disabilities, and protected veterans are strongly encouraged
                 to apply. Veterans’ preference is extended to qualified
                 applicants, upon request and consistent with University policy
                 and Utah state law.
                 To inquire about this posting, email: employment@utah.edu or
                 call 801-581-2300. Reasonable accommodations in the
                 application process will be provided to qualified individuals
                 with disabilities. To request an accommodation or for further
                 information about University AA/EO policies, please contact
   Additional    the Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action, 201 S.
  Information    Presidents Cr., Rm 135, (801) 581-8365 (V/TDD), email: 
                 oeo@umail.utah.edu.


                 The University is a participating employer with Utah
                 Retirement Systems (“URS”). To be eligible for retirement
                 contributions, you must be hired into a benefit-eligible
                 position. Certain new hires are automatically assigned to the 
                 URS retirement plan and other employees with prior URS
                 service, may elect to enroll in the URS within 30 days of
                 hire. Regardless of whether they are hired into a
                 benefit-eligible position or not, individuals who previously
                 retired and are receiving monthly retirement benefits from URS
                 must notify the Benefits Department upon hire. Please contact
                 Utah Retirement Systems at (801)366-7770 or (800)695-4877 or
                 the University’s Benefits Department at (801)581-7447 for
                 information.


                 This position may require the successful completion of a
                 criminal background check and/or drug screen.

    Special
  Instructions
    Summary

Posting Specific Questions

Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*).

 1. * Do you have a related Bachelor's degree or equivalency? (2 years related
    work experience may be substituted for 1 year of education)
      □ Yes
      □ No

Applicant Documents

Required Documents

 1. Resume

Optional Documents

 1. Cover Letter
 2. Appropriate discharge document (such as a DD-214 – Member Copy 4) – Veteran
    Only – Call 801.581.2169
 3. Addendum to the University of Utah - Veteran Only - Call 801.581.2169 after
    submission

                                                           [1104512]  [1104513]

