[university] Toggle navigation |  Careers

  • Menu   

  • Account


[university]
Toggle navigation Careers

  •     

  •  

Login

Email Address [                    ]
Password [                    ]
  Login
Create Account Forgot Password?
Email Address [                    ]
Password [                    ]
Login
Forgot Password? | Create Account
Jobs Job Search My Activity
Benefits Benefits Overview Competitive Salary Career Path Guidance Work/Life
Balance Community Involvement
Our Employees Testimonials
About Us History Culture Locations Diversity Veterans Disability Services
Help FAQ Contact

[                    ] []
How to Apply
Browse All

Research Data Analyst

Requisition #: 309997

Range: MC

Level: 4

Salary: $43,011-$59,217

Status: Full Time

School: Bloomberg School of Public Health

Location: School of Public Health

Location City: Baltimore

Location State: MD

Resume Required for Application: Yes

Area of Interest: Research / Lab

Contact: 410-955-2990

You must login before you can Apply/Save/Email this position.

Email Address [                    ]
Password [                    ]
Login Forgot Password?

Don't have a JHU Jobs account? Create Account

General Description

Department: Mental Health

Monday-Friday 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 37.5 hrs

Primary duties and responsibilities

Work in collaboration with scientists and core staff to address research
questions involving the analysis of gene-environment interaction hypotheses.
Carry out data analyses for large genomic datasets generated by an experimental
team including genetic, epigenetic, and gene expression. Mine publically
available databases. Modify existing methods for application to new datasets
and types of analyses; Identify systematic problems with data related to lab or
data cleaning methods, software, or personnel. Documentation of work and data
analyses. Contribute to the local protocol development and the preparation of
research grant applications in the collaborative setting. Interpret and analyze
the results of statistical analyses. Discuss with colleagues, investigators,
and supervisor the need for any additional analyses and/or special
methodological needs. Clearly summarize and present findings at team meetings.
Prepare written reports of statistical analyses, including relevant statistical
theory, references, methods, results, and conclusions to contribute to
scientific publications. Keep abreast of technical and academic resources
related to the methodology of statistical analyses.

Qualifications

Bachelor's Degree in related discipline required. 3 years related experience
required.

Additional education may substitute for required experience, to the extent
permitted by the JHU Equivalency Formula.

Equivalency Formula: 30 undergraduate degree credits or 18 graduate degree
credits = 1 year of experience. For jobs where equivalency is permitted, up to
two years of non-related college coursework may be applied towards the total
minimum education/experience required for the respective job.

Preferred Qualifications

Masters degree in quantitative science field (biostatistics, epidemiology,
computer science, biology with a strong quantitative background, etc) strongly
preferred. Proficiency with a programming environment such as MATLAB or R as
well as experience utilizing a high performance compute cluster. Must be
organized, pay attention to detail, and be able to effectively communicate with
team members. Experience in data management of high-dimensional or longitudinal
data is preferred.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

NOTE: The successful candidate(s) for this position will be subject to a
pre-employment background check.

If you are interested in applying for employment with The Johns Hopkins
University and require special assistance or accommodation during any part of
the pre-employment process, please contact the Bloomberg School of Public
Health & School of Nursing Divisional HR Office at 410-955-2990. For TTY users,
call via Maryland Relay or dial 711.

During the Influenza ("the flu") season, as a condition of employment, The
Johns Hopkins Institutions require all employees who provide ongoing services
to patients or work in patient care or clinical care areas to have an annual
influenza vaccination or possess an approved medical or religious exception.
Failure to meet this requirement may result in termination of employment.

The pre-employment physical for positions in clinical areas, laboratories,
working with research subjects, or involving community contact requires
documentation of immune status against Rubella (German measles), Rubeola
(Measles), Mumps, Varicella (chickenpox), Hepatitis B and documentation of
having received the Tdap (Tetanus, diphtheria, pertussis) vaccination. This may
include documentation of having two (2) MMR vaccines; two (2) Varicella
vaccines; or antibody status to these diseases from laboratory testing. Blood
tests for immunities to these diseases are ordinarily included in the
pre-employment physical exam except for those employees who provide results of
blood tests or immunization documentation from their own health care providers.
Any vaccinations required for these diseases will be given at no cost in our
Occupational Health office.



Note: Job postings are updated daily and remain online until filled. See more
in our FAQ.

EEO Is The Law
Applicants to and employees of Johns Hopkins are protected under Federal law
from discrimination on several bases. Learn more

©2017 The Johns Hopkins University. Important Legal Information | About Human
Resources | Contact

Follow JHU:   

©2017 The Johns Hopkins University. Important Legal Information | About Human
Resources | Contact

Follow JHU:   

Follow JHU:   

©2017 The Johns Hopkins University. Important Legal Information | About Human
Resources | Contact

