Skip Navigation
The Home Depot The Home Depot Toggle navigation

  * 
    Search Jobs
  * 
    Culture
  * 
    Career Areas
  * 
    Campus Connect
  * 
    Events
  * 
    Videos
  * 
    Careers Home

The Home Depot Banner The Home Depot Banner
Toggle navigation [9_box] Menu

  * [menu_icon_] My Account
  * [menu_icon_] Saved Jobs (0)
  * [menu_icon_] Sign In

Job Details
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DATA SCIENTIST (103025)

GA - Atlanta

  * Date Posted: Oct 23, 2016
  * Company: The Home Depot
  * Travel: None

  * Functional Area: Logistics/Supply Chain/Import
  * Position Type: Full-Time
  * Relocation Provided: No

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
cp.jobdetails.sn.label.facebook cp.jobdetails.sn.label.linkedin
cp.jobdetails.sn.label.twitter

Email a Friend [Save] Apply with LinkedIn [Apply Now]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Position Description:
POSITION PURPOSE
The Data Scientist will develop the analytical infrastructure and computational
capabilities that drive decision making and impact the bottom line performance
of homedepot.com. By partnering with business leaders and leveraging company
and industry data, this role will develop predictive systems and algorithms for
identifying trends and driving business solutions. This position's primary
focus is to manipulate large datasets to extract meaningful business
information using statistics and machine learning techniques.

MAJOR TASKS, RESPONSIBILITES AND KEY ACCOUNTABILITIES
50%-Design and develop algorithms and models to use against large datasets to
create business insights
20%-Establish scalable, efficient processes for large scale data analyses,
model development and model implementation
20%-Present analysis and resulting recommendations to senior management;
Leverage data to present a compelling business case to optimize investments and
operations
10%-Communicate and educate technical and non-technical employees on analytics
and data-driven decision making

NATURE AND SCOPE
This position reports to Head of Data Science or Sr. Data Scientist
This position has no Direct Reports

ENVIRONMENTAL JOB REQUIREMENTS

Environment:
Located in a comfortable indoor area. Any unpleasant conditions would be
infrequent and not objectionable.

Travel:
Typically requires overnight travel less than 10% of the time.

Additional Environmental Job Requirements:


ESSENTIAL SKILLS:
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
Must be eighteen years of age or older.
Must be legally permitted to work in the United States.
Additional Minimum Qualifications:

Education Required:
The knowledge, skills and abilities typically acquired through the completion
of a master's degree program or equivalent degree in a field of study related
to the job.

Years of Relevant Work Experience: 0 years

Physical Requirements:
Most of the time is spent sitting in a comfortable position and there is
frequent opportunity to move about. On rare occasions there may be a need to
move or lift light articles.

Additional Qualifications:
- Master's in Computer Science, Math or related quantitative field (or BS/BA in
Computer Science, Math or related quantitative field and 5 years of data mining
experience).
- Work experience with Hadoop, SAS, HBASE, Cassandra or other similar
development platforms.
- Expert knowledge in large scale information retrieval and statistical
analysis.

Preferred Qualifications:
- 3 years of experience in data mining and statistical analysis
- Previous work experience in ecommerce
- Experience with large-scale data analysis and a demonstrated ability to
identify key
- Insights from data to solve business problems

Knowledge, Skills, Abilities and Competencies:- Ability to build scalable
systems that analyze huge data sets and make actionable recommendations
- Strong communication and data presentation skills
- Ability to quickly adapt to new technologies, tools and techniques
- Flexible and responsive; able to perform in a fast paced, dynamic work
environment and meet aggressive deadlines
- Ability to work with technical and non-technical team members


We are an Equal Opportunity Employer and do not discriminate against any
employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, sex, age, national
origin, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, status as a veteran, and
basis of disability or any other federal, state or local protected class.

jobDetails
    < Back to The Home Depot Careers
