Show Menu

  • Our Company
      □ Credo & History
      □ Corporate Citizenship
      □ Awards & Recognition
      □ Comcast NBCUniversal
      □ Locations
  • Our Culture
      □ Career Stories
      □ Benefits & Perks
      □ Diversity & Inclusion
      □ Employee Resource Groups
      □ Locations
  • Our Businesses
      □ All
      □ Ad Sales
      □ Digital
      □ Television
      □ Hispanic
      □ Film
      □ News
      □ Sports
      □ Stations
      □ Ops / Technology
      □ Parks & Resorts
  • Our Career Paths
      □ Early Careers
      □ Mid/Senior Career
      □ Theme Parks
  • Home








 
                                                                      ?     [p]
[pixel]       Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Current [pixel]
                page                                  page                                  page                                 page
                Home                                 Search                                Search                                 Job                                                                                                          
                                                    openings                               results                              details
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
   ● Job details                               
                                              
   [pixel]                                      [pixel]
   [pixel]

  [pixel]
                                  Job 1 of 1
  [pixel]
                                                                               
 Apply to job   Send to friend   Save to cart   [Post to my Social Network(s)]
                                         

   [pixel]

   Job Number       31098BR

   Job Title        Manager, Data Acquisition & Analysis

   Business Segment Ad Sales

   Sub-Business     Ad Sales Business Operations & Strategy

   Posting Category Sales

   About Us         NBCUniversal is one of the world’s leading media and
                    entertainment companies in the development, production,
                    and marketing of entertainment, news, and information
                    to a global audience. NBCUniversal owns and operates a
                    valuable portfolio of news and entertainment television
                    networks, a premier motion picture company, significant
                    television production operations, a leading television
                    stations group, and world-renowned theme parks.
                    NBCUniversal’s policy is to provide equal employment
                    opportunities to all applicants and employees without
                    regard to race, color, religion, creed, gender, gender
                    identity or expression, age, national origin or
                    ancestry, citizenship, disability, sexual orientation,
                    marital status, pregnancy, veteran status, membership
                    in the uniformed services, genetic information, or any
                    other basis protected by applicable law.

   Career Level     Experienced

   Country          United States

   State/Province   New York

   City             New York

   Responsibilities Responsibilities
                    We are in the business of leveraging vast amounts of
                    consumer and viewership data sources to change how
                    traditional (linear) TV and digital advertising is
                    packaged, sold, planned, delivered, optimized and
                    measured for clients. If you are looking to join a
                    small, agile team of disruptors looking to shape the
                    convergence of traditional TV and digital advertising,
                    look no further! NBCUniversal is looking for
                    passionate, results-oriented and motivated
                    self-starters to support innovation in our new Audience
                    Studio. Audience Studio is the collection of all of
                    NBCU’s data-driven, cross-portfolio and cross-channel
                    advertising products.

                    Areas of responsibility include, but are not limited
                    to:

                    • Be part of a high performance team of advertising
                    data strategists to analyze and assist in data strategy
                    for NBCU advanced advertising.
                    • Assist VP in exploration, analysis and acquisition of
                    new data sources that will enable revenue and allow
                    additional adsales opportunities, products, targeting
                    and attribution.
                    • Work with external vendors to ensure data is
                    available & updated in NBCU SAS platform for
                    exploration and analytics.
                    • Collaborate with IT team to ensure new data sources
                    are ingested into the NBCU advanced advertising DMP,
                    SAS analytic platform, hadoop and will begin to enable
                    and enhance monetization of NBCU advertising assets.
                    • Create and manage data relationships with internal
                    and external partners ensuring accuracy of data feeds.
                    • Collaborate with research, sales, operations and IT
                    to create data use cases that link data acquisitions to
                    ad sales revenue creation.
                    • Keep abreast of the rapidly-evolving technologies and
                    trends in the TV and digital realms and build a
                    thorough understanding of the media and advertising
                    ecosystem and its key players.

   Qualifications/  Qualifications/Requirements
   Requirements     • BA/BS degree required, preferably in a quantitative
                    field of study
                    • 4+ years of professional experience in media,
                    research, advertising, technology or financial services
                    • TV and/or digital campaign management experience,
                    addressable advertising a big plus.
                    • Familiarity with traditional TV measurement
                    (Nielsen), digital media math.
                    • Ability to take ownership of open-ended problems and
                    drive them to completion
                    • Customer service orientation (internal and external
                    customers)
                    • Highly self-motivated and entrepreneurial spirit;
                    intellectually curious
                    • Strong verbal and written communication and
                    interpersonal skills - collaborative spirit is key!
                    • Self-starter with the capacity to deliver on multiple
                    campaigns, contribute new ideas, meet tight deadlines,
                    and be decisive under pressure
                    • Strong analytical skills, ability to convey the story
                    arc of a campaign to business and product teams
                    Strong technical skills including SAS, SQL, familiarity
                    with Hadoop and Teradata databases.
                    • Interested candidate must submit a resume/CV through
                    www.nbcunicareers.com to be considered
                    • Must be willing to work in New York, NY

   Desired          Desired Characteristics
   Characteristics  • Familiarity with advertising operations and how ads
                    are delivered and measured cross-channel
                    • Solid understanding of the advertising landscape in
                    terms of how data is leveraged and linked within and
                    across platforms for both targeting and measurement
                    purposes
                                                                               
 Apply to job   Send to friend   Save to cart   [Post to my Social Network(s)]
                                         
                                                                               
   We are an equal opportunity employer, offering a great work environment,
    challenging career opportunities, professional training and competitive
compensation. Click Here to view the NBCUniversal Candidate Privacy Statement.





