Jump to navigation

VentureFizz Logo

  • Login / Register

[                              ]
[Search]
  • BizzPages
  • Job Board
  • Stories
  • Deals
  • Calendar

[celect-social-banner_1]

Job Post

Friday, January 6th, 2017
Data Scientist
Apply for this Job
Celect
129 South St, 6th Floor
Boston, MA 02111
Javascript is required to view this map.

Location: Boston, MA

About Celect

Celect is a venture-backed company based in Boston with the mission of bringing
science to the art of retail. Celect has built a SaaS cloud-based predictive
platform that provides actionable insights to retailers by understanding how
their customers choose. Founded by MIT professors and based on award winning
science on choice modeling, Celect has built an experienced team of data
scientists and retail experts, and a development team that is changing the way
retailers make decisions. We are looking for smart, hard-working, and fun
colleagues ready to join us for the ride of their career. 

About the Job

Our engineering team is passionate about bringing truly innovative products to
the market, to build something, which solves a big problem in a way never done
before. As a data scientist at Celect, you will be responsible for driving
innovation by designing new algorithms to help optimize retail operations. You
will collaborate with a talented and agile team of engineers and data
scientists building the next generation of retail optimization based on machine
learning and customer choice modeling. You will be exposed to scale of data,
which will push the boundaries of innovation in the retail space, or all
industries for that matter.  

Responsibilities

  • Develop novel statistical / machine learning approaches to real world,
    large scale problems
  • Work with massive scale retail data sets to derive statistical insights and
    develop innovative algorithms to productize these insights
  • Leverage the core choice modeling capabilities of the Celect Choice Engine
    and build new algorithms to assist retailers with their omni-channel
    optimization challenges

Requirements

  • Masters degree / PhD in Computer Science and Electrical Engineering,
    Operations Research, Statistics, Mathematics, or related
  • Experience with developing scalable machine learning solutions with high
    availability, internet-scale big data infrastructures
  • Proficiency with at least one programming language (Python, C, Java, R,
    Matlab, etc.)
  • Team player with a positive attitude who is interested in building a truly
    innovative product and great company

Category: Other
Apply for this Job

See What It's Like To Work Here

[ceecee]

Celect enables retailers to place the right product in the right place at the
right time across all channels, through predictive analytics and choice
modeling.

Visit Our BIZZpage

More Jobs From This Company

Software Development Engineer
January 6, 2017
Front-End Engineer / Designer-Developer
January 6, 2017
Customer Success Manager
January 6, 2017
Regional Sales Director
January 6, 2017
Inside Sales Representative
January 6, 2017
Data Analyst
January 10, 2017

[postajob]

60 day posting for only $99

Similar Jobs

Materials Research Scientist
January 10, 2017
Head of Finance and Operations
January 10, 2017
Hardware Lead
January 10, 2017
Data Analyst
January 10, 2017
Analyst, Strategy & Insight EMEA
January 10, 2017

[bizzpagesp]

VentureFizz Newsletters

Stay plugged in! Signup for our daily & weekly emails!
Email Address * [                         ]
Newsletters
[ ] VentureFizz Weekly Tech Buzz
[ ] Job Alerts
[ ] VentureFizz Daily
[Subscribe]
Copyright © 2015 VentureFizz. All rights reserved.

  • About
  • Member Login
  • Contact
  • Terms of Service
  • Privacy Policy

