[civisanaly]

Data Scientist - Natural Language Processing

Chicago, IL
Data Science
Full-time
Apply for this job

The Research and Development team is responsible for developing the fundamental
data science methods, techniques, and best practices that power the mission of
our company.  Our diverse work includes predictive analytics, algorithm
development, experimental design, visualization, and survey research.  As a
data scientist on our Chicago-based Research and Development team, you will
work closely and collaboratively with analysts and engineers to develop and
operationalize the techniques that quantify and solve big, meaningful problems.
Our team dives deeply into big problems and works in a variety of areas.

With a specialization in natural language processing, this data scientist role
will apply expertise in machine learning to the analysis of text datasets being
collected at Civis Analytics. Areas of particular interest include neural
networks for text classification, sequence tagging, and unsupervised clustering
of text data. In this role, you will be a critical voice shaping both how
textual data informs existing Civis Analytics products and services, and how it
leads to the development of entirely new ways of serving our clients.

We are looking for individuals from a diversity of backgrounds with
demonstrated quantitative and problem-solving skills. We value creativity, hard
work, and on-the-job-excellence and offer competitive compensation and benefits
packages. In compliance with federal law, all persons hired will be required to
verify identity and eligibility to work in the United States.

Minimum Qualifications

      + Bachelor?s degree in a quantitative field, such as computer science,
        statistics, machine learning, or electrical engineering
      + Experience with core NLP techniques and tasks
      + Familiarity with languages for statistical & scientific computing, such
        as Python, Lua, R, and associated libraries
      + Strong programming skills
      + An ability and eagerness to constantly learn and teach others

Preferred Qualifications

      + Master?s or PhD degree in a quantitative field such as computer
        science, statistics, machine learning, or electrical engineering
      + Experience using compiled programming languages (e.g., C/C++,  Go,
        Java) for high-performance statistical computing
      + Experience with common toolkits for deep learning, such as Theano,
        Tensorflow, Torch, or caffe
      + Significant work experience addressing NLP tasks such as text
        classification, sequence labeling or structure prediction.

Apply for this job

Civis Analytics Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
