

Job Description:          We are using data and analytics to transform care and
                          cures for kids!

                          For more than 100 years, Seattle Children's has led
                          the discovery of new cures and delivering the latest
                          treatments available - all as a part of our mission
                          to prevent, treat, and eliminate pediatric disease.
                          We are now taking it to the next level driving
                          unprecedented growth in leveraging data and analytics
                          at scale across the enterprise.

                          Seattle Children's Enterprise Analytics (SCEA) team
                          is building the analytic platform that is powering
                          this growth. From simplest data mart/analytics to
                          real-time streaming to predictive analytics, we
                          deliver data and analytics to our world-class
                          researchers, clinicians and operations needed to make
                          timely, data-driven decisions - decisions that will
                          transform care and cures for kids worldwide for
                          decades to come.

                          We're looking for talented data analysts, data
                          scientists, engineers, project managers, to join us
                          on this journey. People with a passion for helping
                          kids and their families lead better, healthier lives.

                           

Requirements:             Desired Skills and Experience:

                          We are looking for someone who will provide analytic
                          consultative services to internal customers,
                          supporting hospital goals and initiatives,
                          identifying potential areas for improvement, and
                          understanding the analytic challenges that the
                          customer is facing so as to provide maximum value to
                          them. We want someone who can make solid
                          recommendations incorporating best practices for
                          analytic solutions.

                          We need you to be someone who can apply expert
                          problem-solving and critical thinking in data
                          analytics. Are you the type of data analyst who is
                          passionate about taking the lead in analytic
                          Interpretation, evaluation, and interrelation of
                          complex data, and develop integrated data analyses
                          that can drive towards strategic decision-making,
                          utilization trending, patient outcome analysis, and
                          quality measurement?

                          If you feel passionate and excited about using data
                          and analytics to transform care and cures for kids,
                          then Seattle Children's Hospital is the place that
                          you can make a difference!

                          To be successful, you will need to partner with our
                          business partners, product delivery teams, operations
                          teams and infrastructure teams to solve problems,
                          implement next generation solutions and deliver
                          successfully against high operational standards of
                          system availability and reliability. We look for team
                          members who are excellent communicators,
                          self-motivated, flexible, hard working and who like
                          to have fun.

