Apply Now

Data Scientist, Optimization

at AdRoll
San Francisco

About the Role:

The Advanced Optimization team focuses on utilizing machine learning to drive
revenue at AdRoll while optimizing value for individual marketers across our 
growing product eco-system.

Your primary responsibility will be to improve and scale our internal
optimization algorithms. You will have a strong understanding of statistics and
experimental design. You are comfortable working with AdRoll’s large data set
and possess the ability to articulate recommendations in a clear and concise
way. You will have a background in a quantitative or technical field and
attested software development skills to translate state-of-the-art algorithms
into production-ready applications. You will bring a real passion for finding 
creative, end-to-end engineering solutions to complex business problems.

Responsibilities:

  • Develop scalable algorithms to optimize and monitor campaign performances
    across a diverse group of over 20,000 marketers
  • Design and run experiments to optimize user segmentation, creative design,
    campaign setup, and real-time bidding strategies
  • Apply statistical models on large datasets to:
      □ measure results and outcomes
      □ identify causal impact
      □ predict future performance of campaigns
  • Conduct design and code reviews
  • Research technical literature for new ideas
  • End-to-end mathematics/machine learning product development: Partner with
    the Business Intelligence team to understand business problems/
    requirements, conduct research to develop mathematical/machine learning
    solutions, and engineer a product to scale
  • Communicating and convincing vested stakeholders the nuanced benefits/
    drawbacks of your proposed solution

Qualifications:

  • BS or MS (PhD preferred) in a quantitative field such as Statistics,
    Quantitative Finance, Computer Science, Physics or a related degree.
    Relevant work experience will supersede degree
  • 2+ years “hands-on” experience building production-ready, scalable software
    solutions  
  • 3+ years experience in building models and developing algorithms for
    machine learning, statistics, and simulation in industry and/or academia
  • 3+ years experience with Python. Familiarity with R is a plus
  • Strong SQL skills
  • Excellent communication, organization, and problem solving skills

Bonus Points:

  • Background in online advertising
  • Experience with C++, C
  • Familiarity with a wide breadth of mathematical knowledge (e.g., convex
    optimization, bayesian analysis)

Please include the following with your application:

  • Link or attachment of code you’ve written related to a recent data
    analysis. Please provide an overview of your key findings, methodology and
    impact.

Compensation:

  • Competitive salary and equity
  • Medical / Dental / Vision benefits
  • Paid time off and generous holiday schedule
  • The opportunity to win the coveted Golden Bagel award

About AdRoll:

AdRoll is the largest independent retargeting and prospecting platform with
over 25,000 clients worldwide. It specializes in performance marketing for
several verticals including e-commerce, b2b, finance, travel, education, and
media, and analyzes data on over 1 billion digital profiles across desktop,
mobile, and tablet devices through its proprietary technology. Partnering with
top media and tech companies including Google, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram,
and Apple, along with millions of websites and mobile apps, the company is home
to the world's largest opt-in advertiser data co-op. AdRoll’s goal is to map
the world’s intent data and put it to work for every advertiser on the planet.

AdRoll is headquartered in San Francisco, with offices in New York, Tokyo,
London, Dublin, and Sydney. It is backed by Foundation Capital, IVP, Accel
Partners, Merus Capital, Peter Thiel, and other leading investors. Learn more
at www.adroll.com.

 

AdRoll is committed to creating diverse teams of “Rollers” and is proud to be
an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive
consideration without regard to race, color, ancestry, sex, religion, gender,
gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, marital status, national
origin, citizenship, genetics, disability, age, veteran status or other
characteristics.

 

Apply for this Job
* Required
(Optional)
Almost there! Review your information then click 'Submit Application' to apply.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
First Name * [                    ]
Last Name * [                    ]
Email * [                    ]
Phone * [                    ]
Resume/CV *
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
Cover Letter
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
LinkedIn Profile
[                    ]
Please include an assesstment of your code and data analysis *

Attachment of code you’ve written related to a recent data analysis. Please
provide an overview of your key findings, methodology and impact.

 
Drop files here
File   X
Attach File Dropbox Google Drive
X
Website
[                    ]
How did you hear about this job?
[                    ]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
U.S. Equal Opportunity Employment Information (Completion is voluntary)

Individuals seeking employment at AdRoll are considered without regards to
race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, marital status, ancestry,
physical or mental disability, veteran status, gender identity, or sexual
orientation. You are being given the opportunity to provide the following
information in order to help us comply with federal and state Equal Employment
Opportunity/Affirmative Action record keeping, reporting, and other legal
requirements.

Completion of the form is entirely voluntary. Whatever your decision, it will
not be considered in the hiring process or thereafter. Any information that you
do provide will be recorded and maintained in a confidential file.

Gender [Please select           ]
Are you Hispanic/Latino? [Please select           ]
Please identify your race [Please select                            ]
Race & Ethnicity Definitions

If you believe you belong to any of the categories of protected veterans listed
below, please indicate by making the appropriate selection. As a government
contractor subject to Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act
(VEVRAA), we request this information in order to measure the effectiveness of
the outreach and positive recruitment efforts we undertake pursuant to VEVRAA.
Classification of protected categories is as follows:

A "disabled veteran" is one of the following: a veteran of the U.S. military,
ground, naval or air service who is entitled to compensation (or who but for
the receipt of military retired pay would be entitled to compensation) under
laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; or a person who was
discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected
disability.

A "recently separated veteran" means any veteran during the three-year period
beginning on the date of such veteran's discharge or release from active duty
in the U.S. military, ground, naval, or air service.

An "active duty wartime or campaign badge veteran" means a veteran who served
on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service during a war,
or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized
under the laws administered by the Department of Defense.

An "Armed forces service medal veteran" means a veteran who, while serving on
active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service, participated in
a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces service medal was
awarded pursuant to Executive Order 12985.

Veteran Status 
[Please select                                                          ]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Form CC-305

OMB Control Number 1250-0005

Expires 1/31/2017

Voluntary Self-Identification of Disability

Why are you being asked to complete this form?

Because we do business with the government, we must reach out to, hire, and
provide equal opportunity to qualified people with disabilities^1. To help us
measure how well we are doing, we are asking you to tell us if you have a
disability or if you ever had a disability. Completing this form is voluntary,
but we hope that you will choose to fill it out. If you are applying for a job,
any answer you give will be kept private and will not be used against you in
any way.

If you already work for us, your answer will not be used against you in any
way. Because a person may become disabled at any time, we are required to ask
all of our employees to update their information every five years. You may
voluntarily self-identify as having a disability on this form without fear of
any punishment because you did not identify as having a disability earlier.

How do I know if I have a disability?

You are considered to have a disability if you have a physical or mental
impairment or medical condition that substantially limits a major life
activity, or if you have a history or record of such an impairment or medical
condition.

Disabilities include, but are not limited to:

  • Blindness
  • Deafness
  • Cancer
  • Diabetes
  • Epilepsy
  • Autism
  • Cerebral palsy
  • HIV/AIDS
  • Schizophrenia
  • Muscular dystrophy
  • Bipolar disorder
  • Major depression
  • Multiple sclerosis (MS)
  • Missing limbs or partially missing limbs
  • Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
  • Obsessive compulsive disorder
  • Impairments requiring the use of a wheelchair
  • Intellectual disability (previously called mental retardation)

Disability Status [Please select                                            ]
Reasonable Accommodation Notice

Federal law requires employers to provide reasonable accommodation to qualified
individuals with disabilities. Please tell us if you require a reasonable
accommodation to apply for a job or to perform your job. Examples of reasonable
accommodation include making a change to the application process or work
procedures, providing documents in an alternate format, using a sign language
interpreter, or using specialized equipment.

^1Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. For more
information about this form or the equal employment obligations of Federal
contractors, visit the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Federal Contract
Compliance Programs (OFCCP) website at www.dol.gov/ofccp.

PUBLIC BURDEN STATEMENT: According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 no
persons are required to respond to a collection of information unless such
collection displays a valid OMB control number. This survey should take about 5
minutes to complete.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
[Submit Application]
Share this job:  
Powered by  Greenhouse Logo
Read our Privacy Policy
