[civisanaly]

Data Scientist - R&D (all levels)

Chicago, IL
Data Science
Full-time
Apply for this job

The Data Science Research and Development team is responsible for developing
the fundamental data science methods, techniques, and best practices that power
our company?s mission. We work on projects like predicting national-level
consumer behavior, creating novel visualizations for interactive clustering of
survey respondents, large-scale constrained resource allocations, and building
generalizable predictive analytics software. Our applied data scientists then
use this work for diverse projects ranging from finding America?s uninsured
citizens to optimizing millions of dollars of media spending. As a data
scientist on our Chicago-based Research and Development team, you will
collaborate on modeling strategy, research design, and software engineering
with data scientists on the cutting edge of the field.

We?re looking for data scientists to work on challenges in fields such as
machine learning, applied statistics and natural language processing. Whether
you?re still in the early stages of your career and looking for new
professional growth opportunities, or you?re looking to apply your considerable
expertise in a given subject domain, you can make a significant contribution to
our product and consulting offerings. The Research and Development team at
Civis is home to data scientists who come from diverse walks of life, from
statistics PhDs to former web developers and political polling experts.

No matter where you come from, we look for exceptionally talented individuals
who are passionate about solving the world?s toughest problems with data. We
value creativity, an ability to thrive in a fast-paced environment, on-the-job
excellence and offer competitive compensation and benefits packages.

In compliance with federal law, all persons hired will be required to verify
identity and eligibility to work in the United States.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

      + Bachelor?s degree in statistics, computer science, economics, physics
        or other quantitative field
      + Experience working in applied statistics, machine learning, or
        scientific analysis
      + Experience solving problems with code
      + Proficiency with Python or R

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS

      + Master?s or Ph.D. degree in statistics, computer science, or other
        quantitative field
      + 2+ years professional or academic data science, statistics, or machine
        learning experience
      + Experience with software engineering best practices

Apply for this job

Civis Analytics Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
