Skip Navigation
[LOGO_DFSGLOW_03]

  Sign In to access application status,
  saved documents and Job Search Agents
  Job Details
  View Job Cart (0) Send This Job to a Friend 
  View My Account

  Discover. A more rewarding way to work.

  At Discover Financial Services, you'll find
  yourself in the company of some of the
  industry's smartest and most reliable
  professionals. And at a company that rewards
  dedication, values innovation and supports
  growth.

  Thrive in an environment that promotes teamwork
  and shared success. Build on a foundation of
  mutual respect. Join the company that
  understands rewarding careers like no other,
  with this exceptional opportunity:


  Sr. Manager Data Science

  Requisition Number P170527

  Job Type Full Time

  Post Date

  Location Riverwoods (IL)

  Functional Area Any

  Maximum Salary 0

  Minimum Salary 0

  Requisition Shift
  
  [Apply Now]                   [Add to Job Cart]
  Job Description
  This is a mission critical key managerial role
  within the Discover’s Decision Management team.

  Responsibilities include leading the efforts to
  develop a best in class Big Data/ Advanced
  Analytics capability. The position calls for an
  innovative leader, who has a proven track
  record of translating insights into business
  value leveraging Data Science and Machine
  Learning techniques.

  The successful candidate will work in a
  cross-functional environment with Decision
  Science, Credit Risk, Marketing, Customer
  Service and Business Technology teams. As an
  integral part of the decision management team,
  this Senior Manager will also share the
  responsibility of improving core metrics
  related to portfolio growth, credit & fraud
  losses and customer experience.

  RESPONSIBILITIES
  o Lead the development and implementation of
  best-in-class Big Data analytical capabilities
  that leverage structured and unstructured data
  from internal and external sources.
  o Build and lead a team of Data Scientists to
  drive the Advanced Analytics initiative at
  Discover.
  o Execute large value projects across business
  areas of Acquisitions, Fraud, Retention and
  Collections using advanced machine learning
  techniques.
  o Drive program-based analytics and
  implementation prioritization and scheduling
  with financial accountability, visibility and
  alignment with key P&L goals.
  o Create a culture of learning and drive the
  adoption of new tools and capabilities in the
  organization.
  o Review external data and vendors; Identify,
  evaluate and recommend alternatives to business
  solutions. Keep DFS on analytics and technology
  frontier.


  Skills


  Candidate must have a strong analytical/
  modeling background and a proven track record
  of utilizing advanced machine learning and big
  data capabilities in solving business problems.
  Detailed requirements include,
  o Master’s Degree in Economics/Computer Science
  /Industrial Engineering/Statistics, with
  experience in design and execution of
  analytically derived decisions in a consumer
  financial services setting. Ph.D. preferred.
  o Experience:  5+ years of progressively
  expanding experience in Analytics and
  Technology roles that leveraged new and
  advanced analytic tools in a Big Data Hadoop
  environment.
  o Expertise in advanced analytics, statistical
  techniques and machine learning using Python,
  PySpark, H2O, R, SQL, Hive and related tools.
  o Thorough knowledge and experience in hybrid
  Sql/NoSql environments such as Hadoop, AWS,
  Apache Spark, as well as relational/structured
  Teradata/Oracle environments.
  o Prior experience in Financial Services/
  Consumer Lending/ Credit Card industry a plus.


  Promote a risk-aware culture; ensure efficient
  and effective risk and compliance management
  practices by adhering to required standards and
  practices.

  #LI-RD1

  We are an Equal Opportunity Employer and do not
  discriminate against any employee or applicant
  for employment because of race, color, sex,
  age, national origin, religion, sexual
  orientation, gender identity, status as a
  veteran, and basis of disability or any other
  federal, state or local protected class.

  Move   Back to top
  Up
  View Job Cart (0) Send This Job to a Friend 
  View My Account
jobDetails
