Skip Navigation

  • Citigroup.com
  • Alumni
  • Language
      □ English
      □ 简体中文
      □ 繁體中文
      □ Español
      □ Francais du Canada
      □ 日本語
      □ Magyar
      □ Polski
      □ Português
      □ Русский

citi text logo with arcing red top
open main navigation menu

  • Search & Apply
  • Working Here
  • University Programs
  • Resources

abstract light pattern

YOUR JOURNEY WITH CITI BEGINS HERE

Advanced Search

Search Jobs

[                    ]

Category 
[Select                                                                        ]

World Region [Select                         ]

Country [Select                  ]

State/Province [Select                       ]

City [Select                              ]

Search Jobs

Match Your Skills

Let us search jobs for you based on the skills and experience listed in your
LinkedIn™ Profile.

Start Matching

Career Opportunity

Apply Now

Quantitative Analyst

  • Primary Location: United States,New York,New York
  • Education: Master's Degree
  • Job Function: Trading
  • Schedule: Full-time
  • Shift: Day Job
  • Employee Status: Regular
  • Travel Time: No
  • Job ID: 17000531


Description


Citigroup Global Markets Inc. seeks a Quantitative Analyst for its New York,
New York location.

Duties: Research, design, and develop equities and options execution algorithms
and quantitative models for Citi’s institutional clients and trading desks.
Enhance and support the core suite of equities execution algorithms for US and
regional markets. Analyze and report on overall performance of various trade
execution and routing strategies using impact cost modeling. Develop, integrate
and test new order placement tactics, short term forecasting models, and
optimal trade scheduling models utilizing advanced statistical techniques.
Enhance and support the databases used for pre and post trade analytics and
intraday performance monitoring. Contribute to algorithm whitepapers, optimal
execution and market microstructure for internal and external distribution.
Utilize Q and low latency programming to develop algorithmic trading models,
numerically solve equations arising out of optimization algorithms and release
updated algorithms after rigorous testing for live trading. Leverage
algorithmic, statistical and machine learning-based models to identify new
trading strategies and products in order to improve trading performance.


Qualifications


Requirements: Master’s degree in Operations Research, Financial Engineering,
Mathematics, Statistics, Engineering, Computer Science or related quantitative
field and 3 years of experience in the position offered or related position
involving quantitative analysis, financial engineering or quantitative software
development at a financial services firm. Must have experience with (1) impact
cost modeling; (2) machine learning techniques; (3) Q and low latency
programming; (4) advanced statistical techniques including frequentist
approach, Bayesian Analysis, Stochastic Analysis and filters; and (5) equities
market microstructure and algorithmic trading models. Qualified applicants
submit resumes referencing job code EJ/QA/MM to Citigroup Recruiting Dept.,
3800 Citigroup Center Drive, Tampa, FL 33610. Citigroup is an EOE Employer.
This position is eligible for incentives pursuant to Citigroup’s Employee
Referral Program. Direct applicants only.  

Apply Now

Connect with us

  • Connect with us on Facebook
  • Connect with us on Twitter
  • Connect with us on YouTube
  • Connect with us on LinkedIn
  • Connect with us on Glassdoor

  • Terms of use
  • Careers at Citi Privacy Policy
  • Additional Terms
  • ACCESSIBILITY
  • Sitemap

Citi is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer.
Minority/Female/Veteran/Individuals with Disabilities/Sexual Orientation/Gender
Identity.

Citigroup Inc. and its subsidiaries ("Citi”) invites all qualified interested
applicants to apply for career opportunities. If you are a person with a
disability and need a reasonable accommodation to use our search tools and/or
apply for a career opportunity, please contact us.

To view the "EEO is the Law" poster, click here. To view the EEO is the Law
Supplement, click here.
To view the Pay Transparency Posting, click here.

Follow us:

  • Follow us on RSS
  • Follow us on Facebook
  • Follow us on Twitter
  • Follow us on YouTube
  • Follow us on LinkedIn
  • Follow us on Google+
  • Follow us on Instagram

© 2017 Citigroup Inc.

Quantcast
