 
Create a Profile|Log In
   Close
 Yes No
 
Show Details
At least one job must be selected in order to apply. Apply Now

Terms of use


━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Refer Job: Send to a Friend

  • Share this on LinkedIn

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Add Add to Saved Jobs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Back
Analytics Statistician/Predictive Modeler 

 

Summary of Responsibilities:

Responsible for building and leading predictive analytics projects to support
and conduct data mining and modeling for marketing and other inititaives across
the Enterprise. Serves as a predictive analytics subject matter expert for the
Enterprise, identifying strategic opportunities to leverage predictive
analytics, and leading the execution of analytics on behalf of business units
and the Marketing and Digital Center of Excellence. Partners with business
units on the prioritization and execution of predictive analytics projects and
initiatives in order to realize business goals to optimize customer acquisition
and retention. Collaborates with internal teams, clients and third-party
vendors on innovative projects throughout the entire cycle, from concept to
launch and refinement. Communicates with all levels of associates and
management in a manner that breaks down complex challenges into actionable
steps that drive results. Works as a team player who establishes productive
relationships across the company.

 

Position Responsibilities:

· Serves as the subject matter expert for identifying and implementing
predictive analytics practices across the company to help drive strategic
decisions for the business.

o Drives build out and execution of predictive analytics program and
capabilities, leveraging an intellectual curiosity to explore and mine data,
developing models to inform the business, product, and process improvements.

o Helps define the core vision, goals and requirements needed for execution of
predictive analytics practices.

o Perform exploratory and explanatory analyses, maintaining a big picture
understanding of our business and determining key drivers.

o Analyze and model internal and external data using advanced statistical
methods, and implement algorithms to address business needs.

o Identifies, researches, and recommends new areas to apply predictive
analytics, such as machine learning and artificial intelligence, leveraging
structured and unstructured data, where opportunities exist.

· Executes a data-driven approach, testing and measuring predictive models.

· Works as a team player who collaborates and consults with internal business
units to generate insights, develop recommendations, and shape business
practices based upon the results of predictive models and analytics.

· Collaborates with internal teams, clients and third-party vendors on
innovative projects throughout the entire development lifecycle, to support
initiatives from concept to launch, check and adjust.

· Defines design principles and standards to govern predictive modeling
initiatives across the company.

· Stays abreast to learn, evaluate and recommend new predictive analytics
techniques, software or systems.

· Performs other duties as assigned by management.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Selection Criteria:

· 3 plus years’ experience leveraging advanced statistical concepts and
techniques, data mining, predictive modeling and other analytics to improve
business outcomes.

  ● Strong working knowledge with at least one statistical modeling software
    (e.g. SAS, SAS Enterprise Miner, R, Python, Alteryx, SPSS, RapidMiner,
    etc.).

· Ability to work in a collaborative environment focused on team results.

· Strong interpersonal, communication, business acumen and presentation skills.

· Strong analytical problem solving, visualization, and decision making skills
combined with a passion and empathy for customers.

· Ability to internalize and communicate complex concepts in a straightforward
manner to a non-technical audience.

· Demonstrated thoroughness, follow-up and attention to detail.

 

Educational Requirements:

· Masters Degree or PhD in a quantitative field such as Statistics, Computer
Science, Engineering, Bioinformatics, Mathematics, or a related field.

Computer Skills and Knowledge of Hardware & Software Required:

· Working knowledge of Microsoft Office Suite, with stronger emphasis on Excel,
in addition to Word and PowerPoint.

· Experience with statistical software, visualization tools (e.g. Tableau),
structured and unstructured data, and large scale data manipulation.

 

Work Setting:

  ● Works in an office setting and remains continuously in a stationary
    position for long periods of time while working at a desk, on a computer or
    with other standard office equipment, or while in meetings or making
    presentations.
  ● Requires visual acuity to read a variety of correspondence, reports and
    forms and to prepare and analyze data.

 

Certifications & Licenses (i.e., Series 6 & 63, CPA, etc.):

  ● N/A

Position Demands:

  ● Extended hours required during peak workloads or special projects and
    off-hour support.
  ● Occasional travel may be required by car and plane.


 Send to a Friend  Close
 [spinner]  Please wait...
 
 Email this Job Ad to your friend(s) by adding their email address(es) along
 with your details to the field below:

 *Separate each recipient email address with a comma.

 Recipient email address(es):
 [                    ] *

 Your First Name:
 [                    ] *

 Your Last Name:
 [                    ] *

 Select which language the email should be sent in.

 Language: [English (US)]

 
 [                                        ] 
 [                                        ] 
 [                                        ] 

 Send
 
   Close
 
 This Job Opening is already listed as one of your Interests. You cannot add
 the same Job Opening to your list of Interests more than one time.

 To see your list of Interests, navigate to the Application Status tab within
 My Profile
                                                                       [Close]

 
 Account Warning  Close
 [icon_alert]
 Log In Cancel OK
 
 
