Skip Navigation
 
 
  Sign In to Access Your Profile
  Job Details
  View Job Cart (0) Send This Job to a Friend 
  View My Profile Print

  Scientist II, Food Science

  JOB ID     38961

  LOCATION   United States
  (S)

  CITY/      FL - Apopka
  CITIES                        Are you a
                                LinkedIn Member?
  SPECIFIC   US-FL-APOPKA-PLANT Use your profile
  LOCATION                      to help you
                                apply.
  JOB TYPE   Full Time
                                Apply with 
  TRAVEL     10%                LinkedIn
  REQUIRED

  RELOCATION No
  PROVIDED

  JOB
  POSTING
  END DATE

  SHIFT      N/A
  
  [Submit Resume/CV]            [Add to Job Cart]

  DESCRIPTION & REQUIREMENTS:

  Position Overview:

  The Scientist II position in Product
  Development will work with R&D colleagues to
  define and develop juice-based prototypes for
  The North American Retail Market. Scientist
  will collaborate with team members to deliver
  high quality, safe and cost effective products
  that deliver against consumer needs and market
  trends. The position will involve working in
  both a laboratory and pilot plant environment.
  Along with many function specific activities
  the role requires some product development
  experience (juice understanding a plus), basic
  scientific research, understanding of GMPs and
  excellent team communication to optimize juice
  beverage prototypes.

  Function Related Activities

  Conduct prototype development to define and
  refine innovation concepts. Perform chemical
  analyses using instrumental methods in order to
  determine the composition of samples. Analyze
  samples for Brix, pH, titratable acidity,
  Vitamin C, Calcium, residual oil, viscosity,
  corrosivity, density, essence, and other juice
  beverage related analyses. Record data from
  analyses or experiments in a computer, log book
  or laboratory notebook. Prepare samples and
  sampling plan for ingredients, intermediate or
  finished products, or other materials in order
  to perform analyses (e.g., chemical, physical,
  sensory, microbiological). Manage prototype
  logistics, conduct and/or review experiments
  (e.g., laboratory or process experiments) in
  order to deliver against product targets;
  evaluate ingredient, product or packaging
  safety, efficacy or claims; or evaluate new
  ingredients, materials, products or processes.

  Education: Bachelor of Science or Masters
  Degree (depending on the experience) in Food
  Science, Chemistry, or a related discipline or
  equivalent

  Related Work Experience: At least 2 year of
  work experience is required, any experience
  working with juices is a plus.

  Leadership Behaviors:

    • Drive Innovation: Generate new or unique
      solutions and embrace new ideas that help
      sustain our business (encompassing
      everything from continuous improvement to
      new product and package innovation).

    • Collaborate with System, Customers, and
      other Stakeholders: Develop and leverage
      relationships with stakeholders to
      appropriately stretch and impact the System
      (Company and Bottler).

    • Act like an Owner: Deliver results,
      creating value for our brands, our System,
      our customers and key stakeholders.

    • Inspire Others: Inspire people to deliver
      our mission and 2020 Vision, demonstrate
      passion for the business and give people a
      reason to believe anything is possible.

    • Develop Self and Others: Develop self and
      support others’ development to achieve full
      potential.


      Technical Skills:
    • Calibration: Ability to measure instrument
      variations and apply corrections for
      ensuring the accuracy and precision of an
      instrument or measurement tool.

    • Protects Proprietary IP: Ability to
      recognize and protect proprietary
      information as it relates to innovation
      concepts, scientific data, formulas and
      ingredients.

    • Product Development: Ability to produce and
      process complex, functional beverages on a
      lab scale. Basic Inorganic Chemistry:
      General knowledge of the composition,
      structure and properties of inorganic
      substances needed to understand inorganic
      ingredients (e.g., acidulants, oxygen,
      water, buffers) used in Company products
      and in research on stability of
      ingredients.

    • Basic Microbiology: Basic knowledge of food
      and water microbiology used to make
      judgments about the safety of ingredients,
      beverages, manufacturing techniques,
      packaging and storage conditions.

    • Basic Nutrition: Knowledge of basic
      nutrition concepts and definitions involved
      in basic nutritional labeling.





  Honesty and integrity have always been
  cornerstone values of The Coca-Cola Company.
  Our passion for people of integrity mirrors our
  spirited drive for total quality in our brands.
  These and other elements allow the company to
  sustain strategic practices and drive business
  performance. The Personnel Integrity Assurance
  Program is another step toward making The
  Coca-Cola Company the premier workplace. This
  process includes a pre-employment background
  investigation that applies to all applicants
  employees and contractors of the company. The
  scope of this inquiry may cover such elements
  as education employment history a criminal
  history check reference checks and a
  pre-employment drug screen. Designated
  countries or sensitive positions within the
  company may have more stringent standards.

  At The Coca-Cola Company you can cultivate your
  career in a challenging and dynamic
  environment. We are the largest manufacturer
  and distributor of nonalcoholic drinks in the
  world-selling more than 1 billion drinks a day.
  Unlock your full potential with a
  future-focused company that is known and
  respected throughout the world.



  We are an Equal Opportunity Employer and do not
  discriminate against any employee or applicant
  for employment because of race, color, sex,
  age, national origin, religion, sexual
  orientation, gender identity and/or expression,
  status as a veteran, and basis of disability or
  any other federal, state or local protected
  class.

  Move   Back to top
  Up
  View Job Cart (0) Send This Job to a Friend 
  View My Profile Print
jobDetails
