[graphiqlog]

Data Scientist (Data team)

Santa Barbara
Engineering
Full-time
Apply for this job

At Graphiq, we?re building the deepest and broadest knowledge graph on the
planet. We have billions of entities, hundreds of billions of attributes, an
amazing presentation layer, and a growing distribution network of premium
publishers. Everyone needs knowledge, and we?re here to satisfy that need.

As a Data Scientist on Graphiq?s data team, you will eat, breathe, and sleep
data. You will be responsible for building full-fledged data products that help
our product managers provide users with deeper insights and tell a more
compelling story with our data. You will research, design, and implement robust
methods for statistical analysis that can be used to help understand our
billions of data points. You will build production-grade, scalable solutions
for analyzing our large and very connected knowledge graph.

You will have a significant impact on the organization by helping us build
amazing products that deliver our knowledge and insights to hundreds of
millions of users.

What You'll Do:

      + Implement robust methods for statistical analysis such as timeseries
        decomposition, changepoint and correlation analysis, and bayesian
        network structure learning
      + Research, prototype and deploy scalable methods for data analysis in
        production (i.e. write production code)
      + Work with the product team to identify and implement domain specific
        statistical analyses
      + Use statistics to help compose a compelling story with our data

What We're Looking For:

      + High GPA in computer science (or related fields) with significant
        coursework in statistics or machine learning
      + Knowledge in at least one of the following: timeseries analysis,
        bayesian networks, clustering, or dimensionality reduction techniques
      + Experience writing high quality code in Python or Java and the relevant
        modules/libraries (numpy, scipy, scikit-learn, pandas, weka, Mahout,
        etc.)
      + Experience with relational databases (MySQL or Postgres)
      + Data-driven mindset, strong problem solving skills, and a bias to
        action
      + A passion for using data to make sense of the world

Start Date: As soon as possible

Experience Level: our openings span from new grad to experienced professionals
with 5+ years experience. Title and compensation package will be commensurate
with experience.

Graphiq is an equal opportunity employer, and we value diversity at our
company.

Apply for this job

Graphiq Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
