Skip Navigation
close

  • Our Benefits
  • Our Values
  • Our Hiring Process

Social Media

  • Twitter
  • LinkedIn
  • YouTube
  • Glassdoor
  • Facebook

WELLS FARGO BANK
Search Our Jobs

Search Our Jobs

Keyword [                    ]

Location [                    ]

Radius [Select  ]

Search Our Jobs

Job Description

Analytic Consultant 1 (Data and Research Analyst)

Apply now Job ID 5305423 Schedule Type Reg-Time Work Hours 40 Location Santa
Monica, California
Job Description

Wells Fargo Capital Finance is one of the top lead arrangers of asset-based
loans in the U.S. with a large and diversified portfolio of close to 2,500
customers and $37 billion in loans outstanding. Capital Finance offers
traditional asset-based financing, specialized senior secured financing,
accounts receivable financing, purchase order financing, and supply chain
financing to a wide range of companies throughout the United States, Canada and
the United Kingdom.

The Data and Research Analyst (“DRA”) will be a member of the Technology
Finance Division  within Wells Fargo Capital Finance and will work closely with
the portfolio and underwriting teams that underwrite and manage loans to middle
market companies in the software and technology vertical. The DRA will
consolidate data and provide valuable metrics to our group. Specific
Responsibilities include the following:

  • Develop and maintain database of portfolio metrics including loan
    structure, loan terms, financial performance metrics, and valuation
    metrics;
  • Source and maintain database of Merger and Acquisition “M&A” comps
    (utilizing public information as well as sale metrics from software
    companies within our existing and paid out portfolio of loans); 
  • Prepare and update “Welcome Decks” for new borrowers;
  • Utilizing both internal and 3rd party external resources, research, prepare
    and disseminate reports on specific industries and portfolio companies
    through ongoing review of relevant articles in key periodicals and
    websites;
  • Drawing from the portfolio databases and industry research data management
    noted above, 1) prepare and distribute ongoing reports to the team and 2)
    create a newsletter to update borrowers and private equity partners with
    industry trends, recent transactions, and our product/team;
  • Assist Underwriters and portfolio teams in requesting industry diligence
    from various sources and create a centralized repository of industry
    diligence;
  • Process Client reporting on a monthly basis and maintain our internal
    tracking system for reporting and valuations;
  • Assist in the completion of monthly portfolio reports as requested;
  • Conduct ad hoc research of targeted companies, industries and trends within
    the general economy and software space.

Team members support our focus on building strong customer relationships
balanced with a strong risk mitigating and compliance-driven culture which
firmly establishes those disciplines as critical to the success of our
customers and company. They are accountable for execution of all applicable
risk programs (Credit, Market, Financial Crimes, Operational, Regulatory
Compliance), which includes effectively following, and adhering to and if
applicable Wells Fargo policies and procedures, appropriately fulfilling risk
and compliance obligations, timely and effective escalation and remediation of
issues, and making sound risk decisions.  There is emphasis on proactive
monitoring, governance, risk identification and escalation, as well as making
sound risk decisions commensurate with the business unit’s risk appetite and
all risk and compliance program requirements.



Required Qualifications

  • 3+ years of reporting experience, analytics experience, or a combination of
    both; or a BS/BA degree or higher in a quantitative field such as applied
    math, statistics, engineering, physics, accounting, finance, economics,
    econometrics, computer sciences, or business/social and behavioral sciences
    with a quantitative emphasis



Desired Qualifications

  • Ability to meet stringent deadlines
  • Intermediate Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Outlook, and PowerPoint) skills
  • Strong organizational, multi-tasking, and prioritizing skills
  • Excellent verbal, written, and interpersonal communication skills
  • Good analytical skills including strategically analyzing data, diagnosing
    opportunities, and providing interventions



Other Desired Qualifications

  • The successful candidate should also possess an inquisitive nature, and the
    ability to work with other analysts/RMs toward common end goals.
  • Understanding of accounting/finance.
  • Asset-based lending experience.





Disclaimer


All offers for employment with Wells Fargo are contingent upon the candidate
having successfully completed a criminal background check. Wells Fargo will
consider qualified candidates with criminal histories in a manner consistent
with the requirements of applicable local, state and Federal law, including
Section 19 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.

Relevant military experience is considered for veterans and transitioning
service men and women.
Wells Fargo is an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer, Minority/
Female/Disabled/Veteran/Gender Identity/Sexual Orientation.

0206461 WHOLESALE BANKING Apply now

Share

  • Facebook
  • Google+
  • LinkedIn
  • Twitter
  • Email

About Our Location

Santa Monica Office

View map [ico-map]

Working at Wells Fargo – Our Hiring Process

[video]

Find Jobs Near You

Sign up for our Talent Community and receive Job Alerts

Sign up

Email Address[                    ]

Select Your InterestsSearch for a category, location, or  category/location
pair, select a term from  the suggestions, and click “add”.

Category[                    ]

Location[                    ]

add

  • Remove

Confirm Email [                    ]

[Sign up]

Related Jobs

  • Collateral AST Base Exam Manager 3 (Collateral Exam Manager) - Santa
    Monica, California
  • Senior Asset Based Lending Field Examiner - Santa Monica, California

  • WF Stories

    WF Stories

    WF Stories

  • Blog

    Blog

    Blog

  • CSR

    CSR

    CSR

Wells Fargo is committed to hiring and retaining diverse team members including
Military Veterans, Veterans with disabilities, and transitioning Military
personnel. We are working to increase diverse representation throughout the
company and create an inclusive environment for all team members. When
recruiting, we work with talent resources that focus on diversity and Veterans.
We attend Veteran-focused job fairs and identify Military Veteran job seekers
through resources like Military.com, Recruit Military.com, Hire Vets First, our
internal Veterans’ Team Member Network and others. To learn more about career
opportunities with our company, please visit us at wellsfargo.com/careers.

We also welcome you to visit our Military employment portal at
wellsfargo-veterans.jobs. This innovative platform allows service men and women
preparing to transition into civilian life to use their current Military
Occupation Code (MOC) or Military Occupation Specialty (MOS) to easily find
civilian jobs on corporate career sites. This technology provides the
cornerstone all companies need to start effectively communicating their
available employment opportunities to military men and women who are
transitioning into civilian life.

stage-coach

  • Legal Notices
  • EEO is the Law
  • Site Map

Relevant military experience is considered for veterans and transitioning
service men and women. Wells Fargo is an Affirmative Action and Equal
Opportunity Employer, Minority/Female/Disabled/Veteran/Gender Identity/Sexual
Orientation.

© 2017 Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. All rights reserved.

Quantcast
