JavaScript is turned off in your web browser. Turn it on to take full advantage
of this site, then refresh the page.

Loading...
Skip to Main Content

Career Opportunities: R&D Techician IV - Maple Grove, MN (296749)

Req Id 296749 - Posted 12/22/2016 - Research & Development - US-MN-Maple Grove
  Job Description Print Preview
Apply Apply using LinkedIn™ Save Job Email Job to Friend Return to List

 

 

Primary Location: US-MN-Maple Grove
Additional Locations: (n/a)
Requisition ID: 296749

 

 

At Boston Scientific, our products and technologies are used to diagnose or
treat a wide range of medical conditions. We continue to innovate in key areas
and are extending our innovations into new geographies and high-growth
adjacency markets. In Peripheral Intervention (PI) we treat vascular system
blockages in areas such as the carotid and renal arteries and the lower
extremities, treating peripheral vascular diseases and pulmonary embolisms.
Medical conditions we provide solutions for include: carotid artery stenting,
embolic protection balloon catheters, vascular protection, iliac solutions and
renal solutions. We have a robust product line and pipeline, and we will
continue to make an investment in peripheral interventional treatments.

 

Impact Statement:

This Technician level IV position will play an important role in the
development of new and improved peripheral intervention medical devices. It
offers technically challenging work that can have a positive impact on
patients’ lives, and the business.

 

Purpose Statement:

Assist R&D engineers, scientists, and/or teams in the development and analysis
of products, materials, processes, or equipment.  This level position requires
an extensive knowledge base and a high degree of independence.

 

Key Responsibilities:

  • Execute assigned tasks for project deliverables.
  • Develop solutions and contribute to initial design, testing, and process
    concepts.
  • Construct prototype products and/or detailed test methods from concepts.
  • Organize, coordinate, and execute testing of prototypes/materials with
    minimal engineering guidance.
  • Develop new test methods and/or make revisions to existing test methods.
  • Coordinate procuring and qualification of new or modified test equipment.
  • Prepare reports/documentation to communicate results to the technical
    community.
  • Use developed networks in assisting engineering teams in obtaining
    necessary materials, services, and test data.
  • Work with internal resources and external vendors to identify and obtain
    supplies and services.
  • Train/Coach peers on the technical aspects of their job including
    interpreting and rationalizing results (i.e. statistics, DOE).

 

Basic Qualifications:

  • AA Degree or equivalent work experience in related discipline and 6 years
    related experience.
  • Demonstrated prototyping skills in prototyping small devices
  • Experience in designing & fabricating test fixtures & apparatus
  • Familiarity with a variety of measurement methods, techniques, and
    instruments, and with test method standards

 

Preferred Qualifications:

  • Electromechanical prototyping experience preferred
  • Experience with the full development cycle of an electromechanical device,
    including development and validation of test methods
  • Experience with development/testing of medical devices
  • Familiarity with Solidworks

 

Quality System Requirements

  • In all actions, demonstrates a primary commitment to patient safety and
    product quality by maintaining compliance to the Quality Policy and all
    other documented quality processes and procedures.
  • Assures that appropriate resources (personnel, tools, etc.) are maintained
    in order to assure Quality System compliance and adherence to the BSC
    Quality Policy.
  • Establishes and promotes a work environment that supports the Quality
    Policy and Quality System.

 

Boston Scientific (NYSE: BSX) transforms lives through innovative medical
solutions that improve the health of patients around the world. As a global
medical technology leader for more than 30 years, we advance science for life
by providing a broad range of high performance solutions that address unmet
patient needs and reduce the cost of healthcare.

 

Boston Scientific is an Equal Opportunity Employer.

 

Posting Notes: US-MN-Maple Grove||(n/a)||Research & Development||(n/a)

 

Apply Apply using LinkedIn™ Save Job Email Job to Friend Return to List
Email this job to a friend
 

    

 
 

    
    The job has been sent to

 

                     Please provide the information below
             Job title:              
        *Your email address:         [                                        ]
   *Your friend's email address:     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
              Message:               [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
         Verification code:          
*Please enter the verification code  
               here:

Send Cancel
Powered by SuccessFactors
