[emcore_col]

  • Browse Open Jobs
  • Search Open Jobs
  • Edit Your Profile
  • View Submitted Applications

Job Details


                                                                   Apply Online
                                                      Send This Job to a Friend


Requisition Number    16-0087
Title                 Data Scientist/Machine Learning Engineer
City                  Alhambra
State                 CA
Description           EMCORE Corporation designs and manufactures Indium
                      Phosphide (InP) optical chips, components, subsystems and
                      systems for the broadband and specialty fiber optics
                      market. EMCORE was the pioneer in linear fiber optic
                      transmission technology, and today is a leader in optical
                      components, as well as a provider of complete end-to-end
                      solutions for high-speed communications network
                      infrastructures, enabling systems and service providers
                      to meet growing demand for bandwidth and connectivity.
                      EMCORE’s advanced optical technologies are designed for
                      cable television (CATV) and fiber-to-the-premise (FTTP)
                      networks, telecommunications and data centers, satellite
                      communications, aerospace and defense, wireless networks,
                      and broadcast and professional audio/video systems. With
                      its world-class InP semiconductor wafer fabrication
                      facility, EMCORE has fully vertically-integrated
                      manufacturing capability and also provides contract
                      design, foundry and component packaging services. EMCORE
                      is headquartered in Alhambra, California, USA with InP
                      wafer fabrication operations in Alhambra, and ISO 9001
                      certified manufacturing in Alhambra and Langfang, China.
                      For further information, please visit http://
                      www.emcore.com.

                      EMCORE Corporation has an immediate need for an Engineer
                      to assist on a full-time or temp position.

                      ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITES:
                      • Architect, design and implement machine learning
                      applications through all phases of the Product
                      Development Life Cycle.
                      • Help determine technologies/data mining modeling
                      strategy to use to solve specific business problems.
                      • Develop extensible, scalable, reliable, product quality
                      software.
                      • Interact with other teams to define interfaces and
                      understand dependencies.
                      • Write detailed technical documents.
Requirements          MINIMUM EDUCATION:
                      • Master in Computer Science/PhD

                      PREFERRED EDUCATION:
                      •


                      MINIMUM EXPERIENCE:
                      • Experience working with fast paced environment. 5+
                      years of related experience.
                      • Strong Software development skills (C/C++, Python, Perl
                      Java, SQL, etc.)
                      • Strong understanding of Object Oriented Programming.
                      • Good understanding of algorithms, data structures,
                      performance optimization techniques
                      • Experience with agile software development methodology
                      (Scrum).
                      • Experience building large scale production applications
                      with exposure to the software development life cycle is a
                      must.
                      • Good analytical and problem solving skills and a
                      passion for debugging and problem investigation are a
                      must.
                      • Excellent communication skills and ability to
                      understand and communicate business requirements.
                      • Must be able to independently design code and test
                      major features, as well as work jointly with other team
                      members to deliver complex changes.
                      • Highly motivated and self-driven person who can work
                      with minimal oversight.


                      PREFERRED EXPERIENCE:
                      • Hand on experience in lexical parsing a plus.
                      • Background in data mining, NLP and machine learning
                      using statistical techniques is preferred.
                      • Experience in grid computing/large scale clusters
                      (Hadoop...) a plus
                      • Experience in dealing with large volume of structured
                      and unstructured data is a plus.
  • Equal Opportunity Employer/Protected Veterans/Individuals with
    Disabilities.
  • Please view Equal Employment Opportunity Posters provided by OFCCP here.
  • The contractor will not discharge or in any other manner discriminate
    against employees or applicants because they have inquired about,
    discussed, or disclosed their own pay or the pay of another employee or
    applicant. However, employees who have access to the compensation
    information of other employees or applicants as a part of their essential
    job functions cannot disclose the pay of other employees or applicants to
    individuals who do not otherwise have access to compensation information,
    unless the disclosure is (a) in response to a formal complaint or charge,
    (b) in furtherance of an investigation, proceeding, hearing, or action,
    including an investigation conducted by the employer, or (c) consistent
    with the contractor's legal duty to furnish information.

                      Apply On-line
                      Send This Job to a Friend

 EMCORE is proud to be an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer and is
committed to diversity in its workforce. All qualified applicants will receive
  consideration for employment without regard to race, sex, color, religion,
   national origin, protected veteran status, or on the basis of disability.


Copyright © Ultimate Software
