Skip Navigation
Toggle navigation [1x1] Account

  • [menu_icon_] Refine search
  • [menu_icon_] View my account
  • [menu_icon_] Sign in

Job details

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Gene Data Domain Owner

  • Requisition ID: WD102308
  • Position: Full time
  • Open date: Dec 16, 2016 1:23 PM
  • Functional area: IT
  • Location: Hertfordshire
  • Pennsylvania
  • Pennsylvania
  • 
  • Required degrees: Doctorate
  • Experience required: Not Indicated
  • Relocation: Not Indicated

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Email a friend [Apply now]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Basic qualifications:
•        PhD or equivalent experience in scientific, computational or
mathematical scientific domain
•        Demonstrated successful experience in delivering informatics solutions
to scientists
•        Broad knowledge of drug development and discovery with deeper
experience in how genes/pathways are selected and validated in R&D
•        Sound knowledge of the data types and sources (internal and external)
relevant to the gene domain and how they can be used and combined to improve
and advance decision making
•        Demonstrated skills to line manage and lead PhD level
bioinformaticians and/or scientists
•        Demonstrate competencies to work, collaborate and deliver with
external partners (e.g. technology providers, academics)


Preferred qualifications:
Same as above.


Details:
Why is using our gene data so important ? ...

Selecting a gene as a target to pursue is a key decision in drug discovery and
development with a final outcome (e.g. an efficacious and safe medicine) that
may not be known for many years. The scientific opportunities on how to do this
in a data driven way have never been as exciting. In addition to more
traditional approaches, the rapid development of high-throughput genome scale
technologies has revolutionised how genes and pathways can be associated with
diseases and potential targets validated. These approaches are generating vast
amount of diverse data externally and internally that need to be managed,
integrated with other relevant information and made available as easily as
possible to GSK scientists for queries and decision making.  

Maximising this accessibility, via “data domains” that group like-minded data
together, is a key part of utilising the new tools and capabilities being
introduced by the R&D Data CoE.

How can you help?  - Summary of new role ...

Specifically, for the Gene Data Domain, we are looking for an “Owner” that will
be accountable to set-up and execute the domain strategy in this rapidly
evolving area. He/she will have the opportunity to work with external key
strategic scientific initiatives (e.g. Open Targets, Altius) that are
generating relevant data in the gene domain. The role is located in the Target
Sciences (TSci) organisation reporting to the Head of Computational Biology and
Stats and will have responsibility for the TSci data and scientific computing
strategy.   

The successful candidate will also have a dotted line to senior leadership in
the R&D Data CoE and will work very closely with the DPUs, other scientific
platform organisations such as PTS and R&D IT to implement and demonstrate
value of an integrated data strategy for the gene domain.  In this role it will
also be important to build strong relationships and have credibility with key
external opinion leaders.  This is an exciting and rapidly evolving scientific
domain with interesting data challenges where the successfully candidate will
need to demonstrate strong leadership, content expertise and change management
skills to help GSK fully realise the potential of the data available.

Key Responsibilities ...

• Responsible for developing and executing a data domain strategy, each domain
being aligned to a business classification of data e.g. Clinical, Assay, Gene
etc
• Leads a partnership with the R&D business lines, Data CoE, Domain sponsors
and domain stakeholders (providers/consumers) to plan on a 1-5 year horizon
including;

1) Leading definition of Domain scope and population (data sources/types)
ordering including oversight on the quality of the data, length back in history
(scientific/business obsolescence), cost v’s curation, and prioritisation of
emerging strategic and new sources internally and externally
2) Leads the oversight on Domain sensitivities/security/access/legal
considerations (eg asset divestment)
3) Thought leadership on Domain standards, ontologies (both content and
metadata) and the processes / resources for on-going curation
4) Sets and delivers Domain integration requirements to the Platform team and
business lines
5) Co-owns Cross-Domain collaboration (how does this domain fit into the
ecosystem), how data is shared across domains and how it is used
longitudinally.

• Delivers, Manages and Leads the SME workflow to deliver data curation process
including negotiation and change management of data creation with appropriate
meta data and embedding of new processes to standardise data for example
machine learning approaches
• Supports development of change management plans and leads execution of
delivery within the R&D lines to identify and engage the right SMEs, securing
the appropriate amount of time needed by the SMEs (i.e., ~20%)
• Supports the value creation (information as an asset), monitoring and
reporting of this domain population and usage to others.
• Govern the access/control policy for the domain (facilitated by CoE
framework)
• Provide/enforce guidance relative to GxP re-use of data
• Supports the Data CoE Innovation and Incubation group to define and
prioritise use cases and delivery approaches
• Works alongside the Data CoE and R&D IT to ensure that the domain strategy
and roadmap has a supported and sustainable IT roadmap, particularly with
regard to lifecycle management of key sources on the R&D inventory
• Co-Leadership of Collaboration/Engagement with other domain owners
• Provides line management leadership of data experts where needed and leads
relevant business lines with data stewardship plans and processes that drive
re-use of data

Impact ...

This role operates across all/multiple R&D business lines as part of the CoE,
and also within the relevant business lines – for example PCPS or PTS with
support and guidance from the Data CoE. The impact of this role will span R&D
and also set GSK up as having competitive advantage against external
competitors.

The Domain strategy and delivery is supported directly by Patrick Vallance and
the R&D exec and the domain owner will work with the R&D exec right through the
lines to people creating and curating data


Closing date for applications 31st Jan 2017:

When applying for this role, please use the 'cover letter' of the on-line
application to clearly describe how you meet the competencies for this role, as
outlined in the job requirements above. The information that you have provided
in your cover letter will be used to assess your application.

Thank you for your interest in this opportunity.


If requiring an adjustment for a disability, once selected for interview you
may contact ukdiversity.recruitment@gsk.com


Contact information:
You may apply for this position online by selecting the Apply now button.

If you require an accommodation or other assistance to apply for a job at GSK,
please contact the GSK HR Service Centre at 1-877-694-7547 (US Toll Free) or +1
801 567 5155 (outside US).GSK is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action
Employer. All qualified applicants will receive equal consideration for
employment without regard to race, color, national origin, religion, sex,
pregnancy, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, age,
disability, genetic information, military service, covered/protected veteran
status or any other federal, state or local protected class.


Important notice to Employment businesses/ Agencies

GSK does not accept referrals from employment businesses and/or employment
agencies in respect of the vacancies posted on this site. All employment
businesses/agencies are required to contact GSK's commercial and general
procurement/human resources department to obtain prior written authorization
before referring any candidates to GSK. The obtaining of prior written
authorization is a condition precedent to any agreement (verbal or written)
between the employment business/ agency and GSK. In the absence of such written
authorization being obtained any actions undertaken by the employment business/
agency shall be deemed to have been performed without the consent or
contractual agreement of GSK. GSK shall therefore not be liable for any fees
arising from such actions or any fees arising from any referrals by employment
businesses/agencies in respect of the vacancies posted on this site.


jobDetails
