Skip Navigation
Capital One - US Main menu

  • Teams & Roles
  • Life at Capital One

Job Details

Data Scientist, Development Program

Apply now Job ID R16499 Date posted 01/03/2017 Locations New York
114 5th Ave (22114), United States of America, New York, New York

At Capital One, we’re building a leading information-based technology company.
Still founder-led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank,
Capital One is on a mission to help our customers succeed by bringing
ingenuity, simplicity, and humanity to banking. We measure our efforts by the
success our customers enjoy and the advocacy they exhibit. We are succeeding
because they are succeeding.                                               

Guided by our shared values, we thrive in an environment where collaboration
and openness are valued. We believe that innovation is powered by perspective
and that teamwork and respect for each other lead to superior results. We
elevate each other and obsess about doing the right thing. Our associates serve
with humility and a deep respect for their responsibility in helping our
customers achieve their goals and realize their dreams. Together, we are on a
quest to change banking for good.

Data Scientist, Development Program

At Capital One, data is at the center of everything we do. When we launched as
a startup we disrupted the credit card industry by individually personalizing
every credit card offer using statistical modeling and the relational database,
cutting edge technology in 1988! Fast-forward a few years, and this little
innovation and our passion for data has skyrocketed us to a Fortune 200 company
and a leader in the world of data-driven decision-making.

As a Data Scientist at Capital One, you’ll be part of a team that’s leading the
next wave of disruption at a whole new scale, using the latest in distributed
computing technologies and operating across billions and billions of customer
transactions to unlock the big opportunities that help everyday people save
money, time and agony in their financial lives.

 On any given day you’ll be:

-Using Big Data tools (Hadoop, Spark, H2O, AWS) to conduct the analysis of
billions of customer transaction records

-Writing software to clean and investigate large, messy data sets of numerical
and textual data

-Integrating with external data sources and APIs to discover interesting trends

-Building machine learning models from development through testing and
validation to our 30+ million customers in production

-Designing rich data visualizations to communicate complex ideas to customers
or company leaders

-Investigating the impact of new technologies on the future of digital banking
and the financial world of tomorrow

The Ideal Candidate will be:

-Curious. You ask why, you explore, you're not afraid to blurt out your
disruptive idea. You probably know Python, Scala, or R and you’re constantly
exploring new open source tools.

-Wrangler. You know how to programmatically extract data from a database and an
API, bring it through a transformation or two, and model it into human-readable
form (ROC curve, map, d3 visualization, Tableau, etc.).

-Creative. Big, undefined problems and petabytes of data don't frighten you.
You’re used to working with abstract data, and you love discovering new
narratives in unmined territories.

Twenty-five years after Capital One was started it’s still led by its founder.
Be ready to join a community of the smartest people you’ve ever met, who see
the customer first, and want to use their data skills to make a difference.

 Basic Qualifications:

-Bachelor’s Degree or military experience

-At least 1 year experience in open source programming languages for large
scale data analysis

-At least 1 year experience with machine learning

-At least 1 year experience with relational databases

Preferred Qualifications:

- Master’s Degree or PhD

- Experience working with AWS

- At least 2 years’ experience in Python, Scala, or R

- At least 2 years’ experience with machine learning

- At least 2 years’ experience with SQL 

Capital One will consider sponsoring a new qualified applicant for employment
authorization for this position.

No agencies please. Capital One is an Equal Opportunity Employer committed to
diversity in the workplace. All qualified applicants will receive consideration
for employment without regard to gender, race, color, age, national origin,
religion, disability, genetic information, marital status, sexual orientation,
gender identity/assignment, citizenship, pregnancy or maternity, protected
veteran status, or any other status protected by applicable national, federal,
state or local law Capital One promotes a drug-free workplace. Capital One will
consider for employment qualified applicants with a criminal history in a
manner consistent with the requirements of applicable laws regarding criminal
background inquiries, including, to the extent applicable, Article 23-A of the
New York Correction Law; San Francisco, California Police Code Article 49,
Sections 4901-4920; New York City’s Fair Chance Act; Philadelphia’s Fair
Criminal Records Screening Act; and other applicable federal, state, and local
laws and regulations regarding criminal background inquiries.

If you require an accommodation to apply for a job or to perform a job, please
contact Capital One Recruiting at 1-800-304-9102 or
RecruitingAccommodation@capitalone.com.

All information you provide will be kept confidential and will be used only to
the extent required to provide needed reasonable accommodations.

For technical support or questions about Capital One's recruiting process,
please send an email to Careers@capitalone.com

Capital One does not provide, endorse nor guarantee and is not liable for
third-party products, services, educational tools or other information
available through this site.

Capital One Financial is made up of several different entities. Please note
that any position posted in Canada is for Capital One Canada, any position
posted in the United Kingdom is for Capital One Europe and any position posted
in the Philippines is for Capital One Philippines Service Corp. (COPSSC).

Apply now

Share This Job

  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • LinkedIn
  • Email

 

Our Location

Job alerts

Sign up here for job alerts and other communications from Capital One.

Email Address[                    ]

Interested InSearch for a category and select one from the list of suggestions.
Search for a location and select one from the list of suggestions. Finally,
click “Add” to create your job alert.

Category[                    ]

Location[                    ]

Add

  • Data Science, New York, United StatesRemove
  • Product Innovators, New York, United StatesRemove
  • Remove

Confirm Email [                    ]

[Sign up]

Similar Jobs

  • Business Manager McLean, Virginia, Wilmington, Delaware, Richmond,
    Virginia, New York, New York
  • Sr. Business Analyst Richmond, Virginia, McLean, Virginia, New York
  • Business Manager Richmond, Virginia, McLean, Virginia, New York

Search

Search Jobs

Keywords [                    ]

Location [                    ] [Use Location]

Radius [Radius  ]

Search

Match jobs to your LinkedIn profile. Welcome Back, Login

  • More than just a bank

    More Than Just A Bank

  • Our Take On Interviews

    Our Take On Interviews

  • Investing in Communities

    Investing in Communities

  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • LinkedIn
  • YouTube
  • Glassdoor

Legal

  • Privacy
  • Security
  • Terms & Conditions
  • Patriot Act Cert. *
  • Service members Civil
  • Relief Act

Member FDIC

Equal Housing Lender

Capital One is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity and
inclusion in the workplace. Capital One promotes a drug-free workplace.

All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without
regard to sex, race, color, age, national origin, religion, physical and mental
disability, genetic information, marital status, sexual orientation, gender
identity/assignment, citizenship, pregnancy or maternity, protected veteran
status, or any other status prohibited by applicable national, federal, state
or local law.

If you have visited our website in search of information on U.S. employment
opportunities or to apply for a position, and you require an accommodation,
please contact Capital One Recruiting at 1-800-304-9102 or via email at
RecruitingAccommodation@capitalone.com. All information you provide will be
kept confidential and will be used only to the extent required to provide
needed reasonable accommodations.

Capital One is a federally registered service mark. All rights reserved. Blank
Check® is a registered trademark of Capital One Services, LLC. Capital One does
not provide, endorse, nor guarantee and is not liable for third party products,
services, educational tools, or other information available through this site.

*Plugins required [ Adobe^®Reader^® ]

E-Verify® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security
E-Verify

FORTUNE and FORTUNE 100 Best Companies to Work For are registered trademarks of
Time Inc. and are used under license.

From FORTUNE Magazine, March 15, 2016 ©2016 Time Inc. Used under license.

FORTUNE and Time Inc. are not affiliated with, and do not endorse products or
services of, Licensee.

Diversity works here Fortune 100
