adMarketplace

adMarketplace Careers

Data Scientist

Data Analytics New York, New York

Apply

The Data Scientist will be bridging the gap between data science and
engineering while building our next generation of highly targeted search,
bidding and matching platform. You will be a member of a small but highly
talented team that has data scientists and data analysts. Our matching,
categorization and user targeting services have only milliseconds to make
accurate decisions using both historical and real time data. You will be
enhancing and utilizing these services with scalable solutions. The ideal
candidate will thrive on solving complex technical challenges involving big
data and motivated by pushing the boundaries of using real time data to make
automated decisions. Our team uses cutting edge software, including Akka,
Apache SPARK, Kafka, NoSQL and more.


Requirements:

  • At least 2 years experience in Data Science and Machine Learning with a
    degree in Computer Science, Mathematics or empirical science.

  • Experience in designing and coding optimization algorithms like Yield
    Optimization and Supply Chain Optimization.

  • Strong mathematical and statistical background, with thorough understanding
    of probability.

  • Data Analysis and manipulation skills with relational data (SQL, Spark
    DataFrames, pandas...etc).

  • Software engineering skills with coding experience using Java and Python.
    In addition to machine learning and data mining libraries (Sci-kit learn,
    scipy, SparkMLib)

  • Must have machine learning skills and experience in Regression, Time Series
    Forecasting, Classification and Stochastic processes.

  • Great communication skills, innovative and self-starter

  • Comfortable juggling multiple projects, demonstrated strong work ethic.


Desired skills (nice to have):

  • Strategy Machines and Game Theory.

  • Deep Learning and TensorFlow

  • Advanced graduate degree in Computer science, Math or Statistics.

  • An understanding of asynchronous design patterns, Akka reactive
    programming.

  • HPC, GPU and parallel processing

  • Big Data architectures and computation

  • AdTech industry experience.

About Us:
adMarketplace is the largest search advertising marketplace outside of Google
and Yahoo. Named one of New York's fastest growing companies for two years
running, adMarketplace delivers performance traffic to large, data-savvy
marketers and their agencies. The Advertiser 3D interface is the only
pay-per-click platform that allows advertisers to bid by individual traffic
source and device type.

Experience Big Data in your career—at 1 billion query requests per day and 1 TB
of data generated per hour, we ARE Big Data.

Apply Apply Later
← Back to Current Openings
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Share

LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Email

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Powered by Jobvite

