🌎
[English                 ]
 This job posting isn't available in all website languages
Sign up
Sign in
☰
Taleo Social Sourcing

  • Jobs
  • Help

Data Scientist - Medical Economics

🔍 Florida, Orlando

 
📁
    Other Non-Clinical Professional

💼
    Adventist Health System Corporate Office

📅   
    Sep 01, 2016 Post Date

Apply for Job
Recommend to a Friend
Sign Up for Job Alerts

If you want to be a part of a place that provides nothing less than
extraordinary compassionate care, then Adventist Health System is the place for
you!

We are currently seeking qualified candidates for a Medical Economics Data
Scientist position that will be based in our Population Health Services
Organization department. This position is based in Orlando, FL.

This position has the opportunity to be responsible for supporting the
Population Health Service Organization for the Florida Division of Adventist
Health System. The Medical Economics Data Scientist focuses on reducing overall
healthcare costs and utilization while improving quality by analyzing
population health management, health spend of a population, episode grouped
costs, and financial outcomes. The Medical Economics Data Scientist is
responsible for developing accurate statistical, economic, and financial
analyses from internal and external health care data to evaluate performance,
drive initiatives, and support the Population Health Service Organization.
Actively participates in outstanding customer service and accepts
responsibility in maintaining relationships that are equally respectful to all.

Specific job duties include:

  • Creates and maintains internal health economics data for internal
    statistical analysis and modeling and explains these activities to a
    sophisticated analytic audience as well as translates these activities into
    general terms for non-technical audiences and senior leaders.
  • Identifies and summarizes basic characteristics in data and trends in data
    patterns related to health economic metrics and other indicators
  • Researches and investigates key business problems through quantitative
    analyses of utilization and healthcare costs data
  • Identifies any negative variances between actual performance and targets
    for determined metrics, implements interventions to remediate these
    negative variances, and monitors effectiveness of the solutions
  • Provides management with statistical findings and conclusions and
    identifies potential areas for medical cost improvements; responsible for
    attending various types of meetings at different campuses as required.
  • Identifies and proposes opportunities for process improvement and prepares
    written documentation.
  • Displays and interprets data in clear and concise tables, graphics and
    reports
  • Builds strong relationships with leadership, customers, and peers.
    Communicates appropriately and effectively with stakeholders, customers and
    supervisors, maintaining awareness of any issues, potential delays, and any
    situation of concern that may affect the productivity of supported
    programs, processes and systems.
  • Performs other duties as assigned or directed to ensure smooth and
    efficient operations of the Analytics department.


Education Requirements:

  • Master’s degree in Finance, Economics, Mathematics, Accounting, Statistics
    or related field and six years analytic experience, required.


Experience Requirements:

  • A minimum of three years of experience in healthcare finance/accounting or
    related field with specific emphasis on accounting practice, cost
    accounting, statistical analysis, budgeting, management decision making,
    reporting, and financial modeling, required.
  • Experience with statistical applications like SAS, SPSS, required.
  • Technical experience in utilizing analytical software tools, and
    applications, required.


If this position sounds like a great match for your skills set and experience,
please apply online now!
[                    ]
Top Referrers

109562
[no_profile]

Joy Weekes

41145
[0_4dB69TIb]

Douglas Mvududu

Human Resources

Florida, Orlando

52297
[0_0SLTYh1N]

James Johnson

Human Resources

Florida, Orlando

Activity Feed

22919
Job shares through Adventist Health System
[no_a]
Someone applied to the IT Service Desk Analyst position. Less than a minute ago
[no_a]
Lorenzo Elliott referred the Administrative Assistant- Supply Chain Shared
Services position. About a minute ago
[no_a]
Lorenzo Elliott referred the Payroll Solution Specialist position. 2 minutes
ago
[no_a]
Someone applied to the Server - Nutritional Services - Orlando - FT position. 2
minutes ago
[no_a]
Someone applied to the Assistant Director- Consumer Marketing- Apopka position.
3 minutes ago

Similar Listings

Medical RECEPTIONIST @ Florida Heart Group cc 5650

Florida Hospital Medical Group

 Florida, Orlando

📁 Other Non-Clinical Professional

Post Date: Nov 04, 2016

Medical Receptionist @ The Center for Child Development cc3390

Florida Hospital Medical Group

 Florida, Orlando

📁 Other Non-Clinical Professional

Post Date: Nov 14, 2016

Organ Procurement Coordinator - Trans life Procurement - Orlando - Part Time

Florida Hospital

 Florida, Orlando

📁 Other Non-Clinical Professional

Post Date: Nov 15, 2016

View More Listings

  • Jobs
  • Help
  • Sitemap

© Taleo Social Sourcing. All rights reserved.
Taleo Social Sourcing
1 0
