The Jackson Laboratory

  * Home
  * Careers - Application
  * Careers - Resume
  * Post Doc Jobs
  * Faculty Jobs
  * Other Opportunities

Your user session will timeout in 5 minutes. Please click OK to continue with
your application.

Assistant/Associate/Full Computational Scientist

Tracking Code
    6078
Job Description
   
    This position offers the opportunity to make leading contributions to
    cutting edge research in mouse genetics, disease biology, and translational
    research in collaboration with the faculty and genetic resource scientists
    and clients of The Jackson Laboratory (JAX).  They will closely work with
    the research faculty on projects of wide ranging complexity from a diverse
    array of biomedical disciplines such as cancer biology, ageing, immunology,
    infectious diseases, metabolomics, neural disorders, muscular disorders,
    Biostatistics & Statistical Genetics, and stem cell & developmental
    biology.

     

    Successful candidates will have in-depth knowledge and experience in High
    Throughput Sequence (HTS) data analysis (DNA Seq, mRNA Seq, ChIP Seq, micro
    RNA Seq etc), microarray data analysis, experimental design, data
    integration, algorithm development, development of sequence analysis tools
    (bioinformatics programming), evaluation of analytical tools and
    technology, and delivering training to the research community. They are
    continuous learners and proactive contributors and will present the results
    to The JAX community, at conferences and workshops. The levels of this
    position differ by the amount of independence, years of experience, depth
    of knowledge and leadership demonstrated.

     

    Key Responsibilities

      + Performs computational analysis of omics data, algorithm development
        and implementation, as well as bioinformatics programming.
      + Participates in departmental and project activities such as developing
        pipelines
      + Evaluates data for quality assurance and mining bioinformatics
        databases.
      + Present the results at conferences and workshops and contributes to the
        education and training courses for internal as well as external
        communities
Required Skills
   
    Required qualifications

      + PhD in Bioinformatics, Computer Science, Biostatistics or any relevant
        area. The candidates who are near the completion of their PhD can also
        apply.
      + Successful incumbents demonstrate excellent verbal and written
        communication skills.
      + Demonstrated experience managing projects and collaborations.
      + Prior successes in and desire to contribute to team projects on an
        ongoing basis is a must.

     

    Please submit resume and cover letter as one document to complete
    application process.

     

    All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without
    regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability or
    protected veteran status.

Job Location
    Bar Harbor, Maine, United States
Position Type
    Full-Time/Regular

Apply

[1st Time User]

[Returning User]

Share

Return To Job Listings 

? 2015 The Jackson Laboratory
