Skip to main content

H1 block for SEO

Start Your Hospitality Career with Wyndham Worldwide

Home

  • Wyndham Worldwide
  • Careers
      □ Home
      □ Search All Jobs
      □ Students & Grads
  • Investors

Find Your Career

[160917ww-w]

Join our talent network

Back to results
Apply online
Job ID: 
1614846
Job Function: 
Revenue Management
Location: 
Parsippany, New Jersey United States
Brand / Resort: 
Wyndham Destination Network
Schedule: 
Full-time

Data Scientist

07 Dec 2016
Join our family of talented individuals from around the world who work together
to send people on the vacations of their dreams!
 
As the  world's largest provider of professionally managed, unique vacation
accommodations, Wyndham Destination Network comprises more than 110,000
properties in over 100 countries – from houseboats and cottages to rental homes
and timeshare resorts. Our portfolio consists of a collection of renowned
brands including RCI®, The Registry Collection®, Wyndham Vacation
Rentals, Hoseasons, Landal GreenParks, Novasol, cottages.com and James Villa
Holidays. Last year, Wyndham Destination Network sent more than 10 million
people on dream vacations. 
 
Explore the many opportunities available at Wyndham Destination Network to
further your career and become part of a company ranked as a great place to
work!  
 
The Data Scientist role provides a great opportunity for a creative and
motivated individual who is passionate about using data and technology to drive
meaningful results in an environment that encourages learning. You will be part
of an award winning team with lots of experience developing large scale
applications of advanced analytics. 

  ● Develop a sound understanding of the WDN business model, data and systems;
    particular focus will be on developing a solid understanding of the
    principles of pricing, customer acquisition, customer retention and
    inventory distribution.
  ● Provide support for existing analytical processes and meet stakeholders’
    service expectations.
  ● Work on ad-hoc analysis and handle data requests from business
    stakeholders.
  ● Maintain and enhance existing forecasting, regression and classification
    models; enhance existing models and develop new ones using machine learning
    techniques.
  ● Design and develop new algorithms to support strategic decision making in
    areas like inventory distribution, customer acquisition, customer retention
    and pricing.

 
Qualifications

  ● Graduate degree (Master’s or PhD) in a quantitatively oriented subject such
    as Mathematics, Operations Research, Economics, Engineering etc. required
  ● Experience building time series forecasting models, gained either in an
    academic or industry setting, required
  ● Familiarity with optimization theory (obtained though graduate level
    coursework) required
  ● Familiarity with applications of machine learning techniques desired
  ● SAS and Object oriented programming (C++ or Java preferred) skills required
  ● Experience using optimization software required; Xpress-MP (Dash
    optimization) skills highly desired
  ● Experience querying and building databases required; Familiarity with SQL
    and Oracle desired
  ● Intellectual curiosity and willingness to explore and learn new
    technologies
  ● Strong quantitative and communication skills required; Must possess a
    pragmatic approach to solving problems
  ● Experience with Hadoop or Spark data processing stack (Hive, Pig, Spark SQL
    etc.) desired
  ● Experience with UNIX and writing shell scripts desired



Back to results
Apply online

  • Privacy Notice
  • Terms & Conditions
  • Privacy Settings
  • Internal Associates

facebook

[facebook_n]

twitter

[twitter_ne]

linkedin

Follow Wyndham Worldwide on LinkedIn

Facebook icon

[facebook]
[]

Copyrights

If you require a reasonable accommodation to complete an application please
email your request to Mycareer@Wyn.com and provide the job title and location
to which you are applying.

© 2006-2016 Wyndham Worldwide Corporation. All rights reserved. Wyndham
Worldwide and affiliated brands and logos are service marks and/or registered
trademarks of Wyndham Worldwide or its subsidiaries in the United States and
other countries.

