 
 
 
 
Processing... please wait
#   #     #  


        Job Description

        Sign In|New User
          
        # Previous Job                                                                                                                                                          Next Job #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
        
        Job Details
                       Job Title   Research Scientist                                                  Job ID    512840
                        Location   Modesto A. Maidique Campus                                  Full/Part Time    Full-Time
                                                                                                  Review Date    02/04/2017
               Regular/Temporary   Regular
                                                                                                 Favorite Job   Add to My Favorite Jobs
         -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         
          About FIU
          
          Florida International University is classified by Carnegie as a R1: Doctoral
          Universities - Highest Research Activity and recognized as a Carnegie engaged
          university. It is a public research university with colleges and schools that
          offers 196 bachelor?s, master?s and doctoral programs in fields such as
          engineering, computer science, international relations, architecture, law and
          medicine. As one of South Florida?s anchor institutions, FIU contributes almost
          $9 billion each year to the local economy. FIU is Worlds Ahead in finding
          solutions to the most challenging problems of our time. FIU emphasizes research
          as a major component of its mission. FIU has awarded more than 220,000 degrees
          and enrolls more than 54,000 students in two campuses and three centers
          including FIU Downtown on Brickell, FIU@I-75, and the Miami Beach Urban
          Studios. FIU?s Medina Aquarius Program houses the Aquarius Reef Base, a unique
          underwater research facility in the Florida Keys. FIU also supports artistic
          and cultural engagement through its three museums: Patricia & Phillip Frost Art
          Museum, the Wolfsonian-FIU, and the Jewish Museum of Florida-FIU. FIU is a
          member of Conference USA and more than 400 student-athletes participating in 18
          sports. For more information about FIU, visit http://www.fiu.edu/.


          Job Summary
          
          Florida International University (FIU) in Miami, FL is seeking a Research
          Scientist to provide mass spectrometry and administrative support to the
          operation of the Advance Mass Spectrometry Facility in performing daily mass
          spectrometry services for FIU and non-FIU users including service
          administration, instruments maintenance, networking assistance and mass
          spectrometry data management and storage. Performs mass spectrometry-related
          service analysis on a fee-based scheme, develop a customer portfolio of
          internal and external users to attract and promote the use of the mass
          spectrometry facility. Develops analytical separation methods, service cost and
          timelines in response to the internal and external user needs, create the
          facility daily schedule. Provides sample submission form and facility policy.
          Performs sample preparation and analysis. Provides summary results of the
          analysis and creates a service results portfolio. Coordinates and provides
          necessary support to FIU/CAS faculty on mass spectrometry related courses,
          teaching and laboratory exercises. Creates, guarantees and supervises the mass
          spectrometry service portfolio. Develops and executes the instruments?
          maintenance plan. Assists in the development, implementation and interpretation
          of operating lab equipment procedures. Assists the Principle Investigator (PI)
          in grant writing of shared instrumentation and major research instrumentation
          grants and provide mass spectrometry expertise and support during FIU
          researcher grant development.. Assists in the formulation and administration of
          the assigned research programs/projects? budgets. Ensures fiscal regulatory
          compliance to governing agency protocols. Writes laboratory analysis reports,
          monthly progress reports, annual final reports, test plans, and other
          project-relevant documents. Performs related duties as required or as directed.


          Minimum Qualifications
          
          Doctoral degree and three (3) years of relevant experience or equivalent in
          training and/or experience.


          Departmental Requirements
          
          Position requires a Ph.D. in Chemistry, Physics or a related field and three
          (3) years of relevant experience or equivalent in training and/or experience.
          Position also requires knowledge of advanced features in Microsoft Office
          Suite; the ability to handle information of sensitive and confidential nature
          in the utmost professional manner; ability to analyze data, conduct
          presentations effectively, and have excellent written and oral communication
          skills. Requires a background check.

           


          Advertised Salary
          
          commensurate with experience

           


          Pre-Employment Requirements
          
          Criminal Background Check


          How To Apply
          
          Current Employee

          As a current employee, you must log into Employee Self Service (ESS) to apply
          for this and any other internal career opportunity of interest. 

          In order to be considered eligible for the position as an internal candidate,
          departmental staff must meet minimum requirements of theposition, be in good
          performance standing, and have been continuously employed at the University for
          at least six months.

          Before you begin the process, we recommend that you are prepared to attach
          electronic copies of your resume/ curriculum vitae, cover letter or any other
          documents within the application process.  It is recommended that you combine
          your cover letter and resume into one attachment. Attached documents should be
          in Microsoft Word or PDF format.

          *This posting will close at 12 am of the close date.


          How To Apply
          
          Prospective Employee

          If you have not created a registered account, you will be asked to create a
          username and password for use of the system. It is recommended that you provide
          an active/valid e-mail account as that will be the main source of communication
          regarding your status within the process. Before you begin the process, we
          recommend that you are prepared to attach electronic copies of your resume,
          cover letter or any other documents within the application process. It is
          recommended that you combine your cover letter and resume/curriculum vitae into
          one attachment.  Attached documents should be in Microsoft Word or PDF format.
          All applicants are required to complete the online application including work
          history and educational details (if applicable), even when attaching a resume.

          *This posting will close at 12 am of the close date.


          Disclosures
          
          Clery Notice

          In compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and
          Crime Statistics Act, the University Police department at Florida International
          University provides information on crimes statistics, crime prevention, law
          enforcement, crime reporting, and other related issues for the past three (3)
          calendar years. The FIU Annual Security report is available online at: https://
          police.fiu.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/54/2016/04/
          Campus_Security_Report__Safety_Guide.pdf.

          To obtain a paper copy of the report, please visit the FIU Police Department
          located at 885 SW 109th Avenue, Miami, FL, 33199 (PG5 Market Station).

           

          Pay Transparency

          Florida International University will not discharge or in any other manner
          discriminate against employees or applicants because they have inquired about,
          discussed, or disclosed their own pay or the pay of another employee or
          applicant.  However, employees who have access to the compensation information
          of other employees or applicants as a part of  their essential job functions
          cannot disclose the pay of other employees or applicants to individuals who do
          not otherwise have access to compensation information, unless the disclosure is
          (a) in response to a formal complaint or charge, (b) in furtherance of an
          investigation, proceeding, hearing, or action, including an investigation
          conducted by the employer, or (c) consistent with the contractor?s legal duty
          to furnish information.

           

           

          FIU is a member of the State University System of Florida and an Equal
          Opportunity, Equal Access Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants
          will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color,
          religion, sex, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, or
          any other characteristic protected by law.


         -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         [Apply]                [Email to Friend]
        Return to Previous Page

t
 

Help Close

test
 
 
 
 
 

Default Local Node:[PSFT_HR             ]
DbName:[PSHRPRD             ]
Portal:[CUSTOMER            ]
Node:[HRMS                ]
WorkCenter Id:[                    ]
Url:[https://pslinks.fiu.]
 
test
