



2
Data Blending Defined
Data blending is the process of combining data from multiple sources to create 
an actionable analytic dataset for business decision-making (such as retail site 
selection or multichannel profiling) or for driving a specific business process 
(such as packaging data for sale by data aggregators).
Data blending is needed when an organization’s data 
management processes and infrastructure are insufficient 
for bringing together analytic or specific datasets 
required by line-of-business groups. It can, for example, 
readily bring together disparate data, such as customer 
information from a cloud sales automation system 
(e.g., Salesforce.com) with clickstream web data stored 
in a Hadoop file system and segmentation models 
from Microsoft Excel. This is important, because while 
organizations aspire to have a completely integrated 
data management system, the majority of data required 
to make strategic business decisions still resides outside 
their IT-controlled data environment. 
Data blending differs from data integration and data 
warehousing in that its primary use is not to create the 
single unified version of the truth that is stored in a 
data warehouse, data mart, or other system of record 
within an organization—and is conducted by 
a data warehousing or business intelligence professional. 
Instead, this process is conducted by a business or data 
analyst with the goal of  an analytic dataset 
to assist in answering a specific business question.
Common Use Cases
Implementing data blending into the line of business can deliver greater 
benefits and deeper insight in hours—significantly faster than the weeks 
required for manual processes and traditional IT approaches. 
This time savings can be realized in the myriad business situations in which 
data analysts find themselves. Let’s look at a few examples where data 
blending can positively impact business decision-making.
Sales and Marketing
For every organization, growing revenue coincides with targeting 
prospects who are ready to buy. Marketing departments spend a lot of time 
trying to identify these prospects so they can focus campaigns, and allow 
salespeople to concentrate their cross-sell and up-sell efforts most efficiently. 
Most customer data is stored in a CRM system—either in a database or possibly 
in a cloud solution, such as Salesforce.com—while marketing prospect data is 
stored in a separate system, such as Marketo. And information about customer 
and website prospect activity is captured by web analytics technology, such as 
Google Analytics. Historically, finding the relevancy of this data could require 
generating spreadsheet-based reports from both the marketing automation 
and CRM systems. From there, an analyst might need to combine these into a 
single spreadsheet with multiple tabs and construct formulas using VLOOKUP 
functions to reference relevant information. Or, they may just combine the two 
spreadsheets into one and manually look for duplications. What’s more, the 
web analytics may not be something that can be incorporated at all without 
some sort of custom work by IT staff. 
3
The beauty of data blending is that an analyst can access this data directly 
from the environment in which it is located. All they need is the right 
credentials to access the data. Then, they can pull the data from the right 
systems and start combining the data on common fields, blending in the 
specific information for which they are looking. They can combine data on 
customer ID, for instance, and discover what products or services not only 
have the biggest impact on sales, but also which of these drive the interest 
of prospective buyers.
Financial Operations
Analysts within the realm of finance understand how critical it is to get the 
right information to deliver the right results. For instance, data plays an 
important role in the loan and credit card approval processes, making the 
difference between approving individuals with a low probability of default 
or fraud and those with a high probability, impacting the financial risk for the 
organization. It can be as  as  out a customer model and then 
tracking and trending detailed client information over several years. Typically, 
this includes combining a lot of data from several sources, including web 
logs, which can be unstructured or need to be cleaned up, and even multiple 
third-party databases that contain information on past and current customers.
Data blending reduces the time to insight from weeks to hours, allowing 
analysts to work with the data directly to improve its quality and cleanliness, 
and combine it into a usable format that can be fed directly into existing models. 
Site and Merchandising Optimization
In order to have a successful store, understanding your potential customers 
and prospects is crucial. You may need to look at customer spend levels, 
purchase history, and path-to-purchase to discover these customers. Once you 
understand that, you can then use that insight for targeting, media planning, 
and other multi-channel initiatives. This might mean taking data from an 
existing CRM system, looking at loyalty card data, or even reviewing inventory 
data. But what if you don’t have enough of this data to make a well-informed 
decision about where to locate a new store or what merchandise you need 
to stock in order to make that store successful?
One way to do this is to analyze data from third-party providers, such as 
Experian, Dun and Bradstreet, or the US Census Bureau, and combine it 
with internal customer data to identify the factors that indicate the highest 
propensity to buy. Examples include ethnicity mix, age, and consumer spending 
on similar goods and services. By determining these market factors up front, 
you can optimize your real estate investment by opening stores in the right 
location and putting the right types of merchandise in each store to drive 
profitability.
Fulfilling the Requirements of Data Blending
Data blending empowers data analysts to incorporate data of any type or 
source into their analysis for faster, deeper business insight, but how do 
organizations enable a data analyst to perform data blending? Many line-of-
business analysts have abandoned spreadsheets and custom work projects in 
favor of 
Alteryx Analytics
 because it fulfills today’s data blending requirements.
Understand the progression of data.
 The drag-and-drop workflow environment 
in Alteryx allows analysts to build out analytic datasets the way they think. It 
lets the analyst understand how data progresses through the process without 
any “black boxes” and quickly identify where issues may lie. This drag-and-
drop technology allows analysts to focus more on the data and less on the 
technology by eliminating the need for coding or programming. 


4
Enable direct access to data. 
Alteryx gives analysts direct access to data 
of any type or source to help deliver a more complete view of the insight they 
need to make more informed decisions. Because they no longer need to rely on 
overworked IT staff or data specialists, analysts can access all the information 
they need to make informed business decisions, including:
• 
Local data (spreadsheets, user device generated data, enterprise data 
warehouses, etc.)
• 
Third-party data (Dun & Bradstreet, Experian, Tom Tom, US Census, etc.) 
• 
Cloud/social data (Twitter, Facebook, Salesforce.com, Marketo, etc.) 
• 
Other analytics platforms (SPSS, SAS, Google Analytics, etc.) 
Expedite data cleansing and preparation.
 Studies estimate that 60% to 80% 
of an analyst’s time is spent preparing data for analysis. Alteryx offers extensive 
tools for data preparation and data cleansing to speed up the time to create 
the right dataset, without having to rely on outside intervention. With options 
for restructuring, reformatting, and filling in missing or incomplete data, 
Alteryx ensures that data quality, integration, and transformations are done 
by the people who know the data and understand the business best, leading 
to the right dataset in the least amount of time. 
Simplify blending of data. 
Alteryx gives users complete flexibility in joining 
multiple datasets thanks to an array of tools that can address virtually any 
data situation. Joining data in Alteryx is not limited to just one field or column; 
Alteryx allows data of any type or level to be brought together. This means that 
data can be joined at both the record and 
field levels, and it can even be expanded 
to include multiple key fields. What’s more, 
Alteryx is flexible enough to join data 
from non-identical fields as well as 
incorporate spatial characteristics, such 
as customer points, into the dataset. Other 
tools, such as Fuzzy Matching, give users 
the ability to match two datasets based on 
non-matching data—names and 
addresses. In addition, tools such as Append 
Fields, Find Replace, and Make Group 
allow users to do even more to effectively 
blend or refine their resulting dataset.


Automate and repeat processes.
 With the amount of ad-hoc analysis required 
by today’s analysts, what if there were a way to make this process easier, faster, 
and repeatable? With Alteryx, there is. Alteryx workflows can easily be saved 
and repeated for further data blending, processing, updates, and analysis. 
Updating the analysis or report is as  as updating the data input(s). 
Output data easily.
 Once the heavy lifting of data blending is completed, 
analysts can implement this data into the right processes of the business. 
This means that resulting outputs can then be pushed back into a database, 
incorporated into an operational process, analyzed further using statistical, 
spatial, or predictive methods, or pumped into visualization software, 
such as QlikView or Tableau.
Conclusion
Traditionally, data was the domain of IT and data scientists—doling out access 
to a select few via careful SQL queries, heavily structured reports, BI dashboards, 
and, maybe, programmatic access. With first-generation tools, the process to 
generate results was long, expensive, and difficult. Highly skilled and expensive 
data scientists would work with Ph.D.-level statisticians and IT professionals 
to obtain and massage data, develop complex analytic models and, ultimately, 
generate analytic results. Analysts were left at the door waiting for results that 
would then have to be extensively reviewed, tested, and re-adjusted to fit their 
original business cases. The result? Data was often neither timely nor adequate 
to answer their questions.
While traditional data analysts use traditional IT tools to generate reports on 
historic data, today’s analysts must extend that capability with their business 
insight and natural creativity to find information their organizations really 
need. With improvements in information technology and the constant influx 
of Big Data, a flood of new opportunities for business insight has appeared.
Empowered by next-generation tools such as Alteryx, today’s analysts can now 
do what previous generations of analysts could only dream of doing. These 
analysts are able to perform data blending to create the analytic dataset they 
need to deliver the deeper business insights they require.

