The decision-making process is marked by two kinds of :
organizational and technical. The organizational  are those related to
companies’ day-to-day functioning, where decisions must be made and aligned
with the companies’ strategy. The technical  include the toolset used to
aid the decision making process such as information systems, data repositories,
formal modeling, and analysis of decisions. This work highlights a subset of the
 combined to define an integrated model of decision making using big
data, business intelligence, decision support systems, and organizational learning
all working together to provide the decision maker with a reliable visualization
of the decision-related opportunities. The  objective of this work is to
perform a theoretical analysis and discussion about these , thus 
an understanding of why and how they work together.


Organizations need to use a structured view of information to improve their decision-
making process. To achieve this structured view, they have to collect and store data,
perform an analysis, and transform the results into useful and valuable information. To
perform these analytical and transformational processes, it is necessary to use of
an appropriate environment composed of a large and generalist repository, a processor
core with the appropriate intelligence (Business Intelligence [BI]), and a user-friendly
interface.
The repository must be filled with data originating from many different kinds of
external and internal data sources. These repositories are the data warehouses (gener‐
alists) and data marts (when considering a specific company activity or sector), and most
recently, Big Data.
The Big Data concept and its applications have emerged from the increasing volumes
of external and internal data from organizations that are differentiated from other data‐
bases in four aspects: volume, velocity, variety, and value. Volume considers the data
amount, velocity refers to the speediness with which data may be analyzed and processed,
© Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015
B. Delibašić et al. (Eds.): ICDSST 2015, LNBIP 216, pp. 10–21, 2015.
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-18533-0_2The Roles of Big Data in the Decision-Support Process
11
variety describes the different kinds and sources of data that may be structured, and value
refers to valuable discoveries hidden in  datasets [1].
Big Data has the potential to aid in identifying opportunities related to decision in
the intelligence  of Simon’s [2] model. In some cases, the stored data may be used
to aid the decision-making process. In this context, the term “intelligence” refers to
knowledge discovery with mining algorithms. In this way, Big Data use can be aligned
with the application of Business Intelligence (BI) tools to provide an intelligent aid for
organizational processes. The data necessary to obtain the business perceptions must be
acquired, filtered, stored, and analyzed after the available data are heterogeneous and in
a  volume. The processes of filtering and analysis of the data are very complex,
because of that it is necessary the use BI strategies and tools.
The  proposal of the present study is to develop an investigation that describes
the roles of Big Data, and BI in the decision-making process, and to provide researchers
and practitioners with a clear vision of the challenges and opportunities of applying data
storage technologies so that new knowledge can be discovered.
The sequence of this work is as follows. Section 2 provides a background for Big Data
and some of its applications. Section 3 introduces the concept of DSS. Section 4 concep‐
tualize BI and presents its organizational and technological components. Section 5
presents a scheme for the integration between Big Data, BI, decision structuring and
making process, and organizational learning. Section 6 contains a discussion about the
integration perspective of the decision-making process, according the scheme presented
in Sect. 5. Finally, the conclusion presents the limitations of this study and highlights the
insights this work has gained.
2
Big Data
With data increasing globally, the term “Big Data” is ly used to describe large
datasets. Compared with other traditional databases, Big Data includes a large amount
of unstructured data that must be analyzed in real time. Big Data also brings new oppor‐
tunities for the discovery of new values that are temporarily hidden [3].
Big Data is a broad and abstract concept that is receiving  recognition and is
being highlighted both in academics and business. It is a tool to support the decision-
making, process by using technology to rapidly analyze large amounts of data of different
types (e.g., structured data from relational databases and unstructured data such as
images, videos, emails, transaction data, and social media interactions) from a variety
of sources to produce a stream of actionable knowledge [4].
After the data is collected and stored, the biggest challenge is not just about managing
it but also the analysis and extraction of information with significant value for the
organization. Big Data works in the presence of unstructured data and techniques of data
analysis that are structured to solve the problem [1].
A combination called the 4Vs characterizes Big Data in the literature: volume, velocity,
variety, and value [5]. Volume has a  influence when describing Big Data as large
amounts of data are generated by individuals, groups, and organizations. Zikopoulus et al.
reports that the estimated data production by 2010 was about 35 zettabytes [6].12
T. Poleto et al.
The second item, velocity, refers to the rates at which Big Data are collected,
processed, and prepared—a huge, steady stream of data that is impossible to process
with traditional solutions, For this reason, it is important to consider not only “where”
data are stored but also “how” they are stored.
The third item, variety, is related to the types of data generated from social sources,
including mobile and traditional data. With the explosion of social networks, smart
devices, and sensors, data have become complex because they include semi-structured
and unstructured information from log files, web pages, index searches, cross-
media, e-mail, documents, and forums.
Finally, the value can be discovered from the analysis of the hidden data, so Big Data
can provide new findings of new values and opportunities to assist in making decisions.
However, management of this data can be considered as a challenge for organizations [1].
In order to demonstrate the differentiation between Big Data and Small Data, we
analyzed them using five  characteristics: s, data location, data structure, data
preparation, and analysis, in Table 1.
Importantly, relational databases are not obsolete, on the contrary, they continue to
be useful to a number of applications. In practice, how larger a database becomes, the
higher the cost of processing and labor, so it is necessary to optimize and add new
solutions to improve storage  er flexibility.
For the purpose to better understand the impact of science and Big Data solutions,
the applications and Big Data solutions in the following different contexts will be
presented: education, social media and social networking, and smart cities.
Grillenberger and Fau used educational data to analyze student performance [7].
Their learning styles were also clarified by the use of Big Data in conjunction with
teaching strategies to gain a better understanding of the students’ knowledge and an
assessment of their progress. These data can also help groups of students with
similar learning styles or their difficulties, thus defining a new form of personalized
learning resources based on and supported by computational models.
Big Data has created new opportunities for researchers to achieve high relevance
when working in social networks. In this context, Chang, Kauffman and Kwon used
communications environments to discuss the causes of the paradigm shift and explored
the ways that decision support is researched, and, more broadly, applied to the social
sciences [8].
In the context of a smart city, Dobre and Xhafa provide a platform for process auto‐
mation collection and aggregation of large-scale information. Moreover, they present
an application for an intelligent transportation system [9]. The application is designed
to assist users and cities to resolving the traffic problems in big cities. The combination
of these services provides support for the application in intelligent cities that can, benefit
from using the information dataset.
The value of Big Data is driving the creation of new tools and systems to facilitate
intelligence in consumer behavior, economic forecasting, and capital markets. Market
domination may be driven by which companies absorb and use the best data the fastest.
Understanding the social context of individuals’ and organizations’ actions means a
company can track not only what their customers do but also get much closer to learning
why they do what they do.The Roles of Big Data in the Decision-Support Process
13
Table 1. Comparison of  characteristics of Big Data and Small Data.
Aspects
s
Big Data
In general, they are projected from a predetermined
Small Data
They are generally designed to answer a specific
 and have a er level of flexibility, question and control in a particular context.
considering the context of the problem. For For example, inventory control, get only
example, the market scenario analysis to iden‐ information concerning the entry and exit of
tify forms to accelerate the sales can be consid‐ goods, is not always done interaction between
ered customer and supplier, acting on the basis of
current market
Data location
The location normally aggregates data spread
In general, the data come from the internal organ‐
across different media, which can be in several ization and the data files. For example,
Internet servers. The architecture consists of a working with spreadsheets results in 
distributed computing where multiple servers increases on internal control
work together to store and process information.
High power scalability, low cost of implemen‐
tation
Data structure
The structure is usually able to absorb unstructured
The structure usually contains structured data.
data (e.g., free text documents, images, movies, Data are represented by uniform records in an
sound recordings, and physical objects). In orderly spreadsheet. For example, the enter‐
others words, Big Data is just to be able to work prise resource planning (ERP) that are
with many variables simultaneously, as reading systems that have a pre-defined architecture
and rendering images in minimal time and very and their records represents a structured way
efficiently. For example, smart city applica‐ to work with data within organizations
tions, using real-time information to describe
the traffic of a big city
Data prepara‐
tion
In general, the data come from different sources
In many cases, the data users prepare their own
and are prepared by several users. People who data for their own purposes. For example,
use the data rarely are the ones who prepared. presenting the results according to a specific
In this context, different people in different context to which the user is located
organizational roles contributes to disseminate
information
Analysis
Analysis is usually done in incremental steps. The
In most cases, all the data for the project can be
data are extracted, revised, normalized, analyzed all at once. In this case, the structure
processed, visualized, interpreted, and then is pre-defined and based on the specific
analyzed with different methods. For example, context. Also are used Structured Query
complex techniques of data analysis combining Language (SQL) combined with appropriate
data mining and artificial intelligence programming languages to create procedures
to mining, process and analyze the data
Sources: [4, 1].14
T. Poleto et al.
To date, for the use of Big Data, a modern infrastructure is needed to overcome the
limitations related to language and methodology. Guidelines are needed in a short time
in order to deal with such complexities, as different tools and techniques and specific
solutions have to be defined and implemented. Furthermore, different channels through
which data are collected daily increases the difficulties of companies in identifying which
is the right solution to get relevant results from the data path. In this context, the tech‐
nology of BI and DSS will be presented.
3
Decision Support Systems (DSS)
Information and knowledge are the most valuable assets for organizations’ decision-
making processes and need a medium to process data into information loaded with value
and relevance for use in organizational processes. Information Systems (IS) represent
these media. Specifically focused on the decision-making process, the DSS work for the
processing, analyzing, sharing, visualizing of important information to aid in the process
of knowledge aggregation and transformation, and thereby improve the organizational
knowledge.
DSS are IS designed to support solutions for decision-making problems. The term
DSS has its origin in two streams: the original studies of Simon’s research team in the
late 1950s and the early 1960s and the technical works on interactive computer systems
by Gerrity’s research team in the 1960s [10]. In a more detailed definition, DSS are
interactive, computer-based IS that help decision-makers utilize data, models, solvers,
visualizations, and the user interface to solve semi-structured or unstructured problems.
DSS are built using a DSS Generator (DSSG) as an assembling component [11].
DSS have a strict link with intelligence-design-choice model, but acting with more
power in the choice  [2]. Their  objective is to support a decision by determining
which alternatives to solve the problem are more appropriate. Although the choice is made
by a human agent (a manager, treated as a decision-maker within this process), the DSS
role is to provide a friendly interface where the agents can build scenarios and simulate
and obtain reports and visualizations to support the decisions [12].
This kind of system has a set of basic  that includes a data base and a
model base with their respective management, the business rules to process data
according a chosen model (e.g., the core of the system), and a user interface [10]. Data
and model bases and their respective management systems allow for business rules in
processing data according to a model to formulate the possibilities of solutions for the
problem.
4
Business Intelligence
An organization’s decision-making process begins with the intelligence  of
Simon’s [2] model. In this , the perception is made that there is a problem to be
solved in the future by applying problem structuring methods. Also in this , the
tools of BI may be used to support the organization’s discovery of opportunities for
decision-making by,  advanced analytics and assuring data integration [13].The Roles of Big Data in the Decision-Support Process
15
So, besides the problem solving, decision opportunities can be added to the set of benefits
that BI can bequeath to the scope of decision support.
The definition of BI can be expressed in two ways: in a holistic organizational deci‐
sion-making approach and in the technical point of view [14]. Similarly Handzic, Ozlen
and Durmic presents two kinds of concepts for BI: one centered on data analytics
supporting decision-making processes in organizations and the other focused on tools
and technologies for data storage and mining for knowledge discovery [15]. This study
will adopt the strategy of considering BI as a system that includes both organizational
and technical perspectives that provide the information needed to perform an analysis
the aid the generation of decision opportunities, the decision-making process, and the
organizational learning process.
Regarding this definition, BI covers all the processes involved in extracting valuable
and useful information from the mass of data that exists within a typical organization to
support the decision-making process. Business Intelligence Systems (BIS) are those that
makes use of a combined process involving IT solutions and business experts’ knowl‐
edge on the operation of business, integration and organizational management obtained
as a result of intelligent decision-making [16, 17].
According to Azma and Mostafapour, there are two  features of data: the organ‐
izational learning process and the smart processing of data [17]. The organizational
learning includes the discovery of new knowledge and dissemination of this knowledge
to those who need it. The smart processing includes analyzing and assessing the infor‐
mation,  decision support to ensure the aligning of the future performance of
the organization with the planning, and  knowledge feedback about the
involved processes to be combined with pre-existing (explicit) knowledge.
Chang, Hsu and Shiau set up BI like both a product and a process. From the process
perspective, the   of BI is to aid the decision-making process and reduce the
time spent on the decision [18]. For this to occur, it is necessary that all the sets of basic
components be defined and implemented. From the product perspective, the BI is the
IT component that contains the referred to set of basic components and that can be used
as the core engine of DSS to generate analytics for managers as the decision-makers.
From an organizational perspective, BI is part of a decision environment that
combines both technology sets and human capacities in order to obtain decisions stra‐
tegically aligned with the organization’s planning. This is the holistic organizational
decision-making approach that Işık, Jones and Sidorova mentioned and that still includes
BI capabilities such as data quality, integration with other systems, user access, system
flexibility, and risk management support [14]. These authors conceptualized the first
three capabilities as technological BI and the last two as organizational BI.
Handzic reinforces the Knowledge Management (KM) and organizational learning
point of view for BI, considering some organizational aspects focused on human inter‐
action which the authors called socio-technical perspective: organizational culture,
leadership, and measurement for successful implementations [19]. Figure 1 shows this
perspective.
Considering the definitions by Handzic [19] and Grünwald and Taubner [20] leads
to understanding that the information evolutionary scale is made possible through a
technical toolset that supports the necessary transformations between the points of the16
T. Poleto et al.
Fig. 1. Business process support using BI. Source: Adapted from [20].
scale (since data is until wisdom), including  of Artificial Intelligence (AI). The
business process, in turn, includes the decision-making process and the action to imple‐
ment the decision. In Fig. 1, the combination of BI, business process, and the technical
toolset could be understood as the  that define a DSS, because they represent
information transformations followed by their application in decision-making and the
provision of feedback to initiate a new cycle of information transformation.
The works cited previously describe intrinsic issues to Big Data and highlight the
use of BI alone. The differential of our proposal is to get an integrated view of the
technologies involved, aggregating value to the decision-making process.
5
Integrated Model for Decision-Making Process, Big Data,
and BI Tools
Simon’s decision model summarizes the decision-making process into three s, as
introduced previously. Each  this model is susceptible to the use of methods and
tools from organizational and technological perspectives. The organizational perspec‐
tive may use Problem Structuring Methods (PSM); Multi-criteria Decision Aid
(MCDA); and KM techniques such as brainstorming, communities of practice, best
practices, narratives, yellow pages, peers assistance, and knowledge mapping. These
methods and techniques aids in the knowledge elicitation of the actors involved in the
decision-making process, thus contributing to the necessary expertise necessary
for solve the specific problem in question, as in the case of PSM and KM techniques, or
acting to provide recommendations to solve this problem, as in the case of MCDA.
Technological tools involve data repositories (e.g., data warehouses and data marts)
filled with data from public sources, BI or even AI and Problem Solving Methods
(PSolM) originated from Knowledge Engineering (KE) (e.g., CommonKADs and Meth‐
odology and Tools Oriented to Knowledge-Based Engineering Applications [MOKA]).The Roles of Big Data in the Decision-Support Process
17
These tools are important  that contribute to store, access and analyze infor‐
mation, discovering and sharing knew knowledge in databases and even supporting the
application of the organizational perspective’s methods and technics.
The  purpose of this work is the integration of the decision-making process with
some of these tools presented in Fig. 2, considering the perspective of the predictive
approach to decision-making. In this perspective, the use of methods to structure deci‐
sion problems and suggest alternatives to choose from is an important issue and an
efficient way to support the DSS design and development. Combined with the predictive
approach, this process makes use of BI tools to provide do information to aid all
the s of the process.
Identification of criteria
for data extraction from
Big Data
Business
Intelligence tools
Fig. 2. Integrated model of the decision-making process.
It is noteworthy that some of these  are framed within the s of Simon’s
model. In the  of intelligence, by making use of Big Data powered by internal and
external data sources, organizations can use of BI strategies and tools to aid in
identifying relevant information, and then the generation of decision opportunities
occurs.
The function of the design  is to provide a methodology to aid the choice of
the alternatives based in what was defined in the problem structuring process during the
intelligence . This design must also be incorporated into this methodology, as
formal aspects related to the method or model that are defined according the problems
identified during the problem structuring process. The development of DSS has made18
T. Poleto et al.
the use of this model viable by allowing the decision-makers, through a friendly and
easy-to-use interface, to perform a series of configurations.
In the final  of choice, the decision-makers will use the results generated by
DSS to complete the decision-making process with the choice of one, or a set of, alter‐
natives, that will then be implemented by the organization.
All these processes produce new knowledge to be combined with previous knowl‐
edge about the do of the problem. This new knowledge will provide feedback to
power the Big Data so that it can be used as necessary, thus fulfilling its role in the
organizational learning process.
Each element of the integrated model is described as follows:
(a) Content acquisition through public and private organizational data sources: This
is ly concerned with the collection, storage, and integration of relevant infor‐
mation necessary to produce a content item. In the course of this process, informa‐
tion is being pooled from internal or external sources for further processing. Big
Data incorporates different types of sources, including text, audio, video, social
networks, images, time forecasting, etc. Strictly, the  purpose of this element
is none other than the data acquisition from Big Data to use in decision-making
process.
(b) Intelligence: The whole world is producing a  amount of data. Thus, this is
relevant as Big Data obtains its value from three of the 4Vs: volume, variety, and
velocity. In this , aggregated values from stored data have a fundamental role
for the creation of opportunities and alternatives once the data are analyzed. More‐
over, in this context it is important to highlight the importance of data visualization.
For example, in a spreadsheet is difficult to trends in data. However, the
use of graphics and images improve the perception for the data analysis helping a
faster recognition of trends or patters and improving the capacity of the data analyst
to perform his work. Based on the visualization provided by the  that
composes Big Data concept, corrective actions can be done in case of deviations
and negative trends. Therefore, in the intelligence  the concept of Big Data
should not be analyzed only with volume, but can improve the ability to view this
data, filtering a large volume of data in different contexts of information. Visuali‐
zation techniques are now extremely important for the generation of value of the
concept of Big Data. After all, Big Data is not a concept just about data, but we can
extract insights and intelligence and visualization is the fundamental key to the
decision-making process. The intelligence represents the capacity to aggregate
value to acquired data in order to obtain relevant information, applicable in the
organizational problem solving. These information should be capable of contextu‐
alize with internal and external phenomena of the organization, ensuring the other
following  the necessary power of action to satisfactorily contribute to
resolve the problem.
(c) Opportunities and alternatives generation: This is the process of creating alterna‐
tives, which is not a trivial task. It starts with dataset analysis that enable decision-
makers to obtain a global view of the process. Then, from the analyses performed
through BI tools with Big Data content, decision-makers pro-actively create oppor‐
tunities and generate opportunities to solve the decision problem. This  alsoThe Roles of Big Data in the Decision-Support Process
19
works for the definition of the criteria, which the decision-makers will use to judge
or evaluate each alternative.
(d) DSS: With the opportunities identified and having the criteria and alternatives to
evaluate, DSS may be implemented according a decision problem that will predict
which method is the most adequate. DSS will act in helping decision-makers in
obtaining an indication or a recommendation of alternatives to choose from that
will be implemented to solve the problem.
(e) Implementation of decision: After a choice is made, alternatives will be imple‐
mented in organizations to actively solve the identified problem.
As a last element, the Organizational Learning says respect to all these processes’
 generating important knowledge about the decision problem. This knowledge
may be captured, registered, and stored in a knowledge repository to provide organiza‐
tional memory about the problem do and will be available for use at any time. The
standard flow of this new knowledge, after the implementation of the chosen action,
runs to private (or internal) data sources, e.g., a base of managerial practices.
6
Discussion
Knowledge extracted adequately from Big Data aggregates the value that decision-
makers use to a decision . This work provided theoretical evidence
to corroborate the idea that the perspective of historical data combined with decision-
makers’ knowledge and experience, formal problem structuring, and use of decision
methods or models may the decision-making process more robust and more reli‐
able.
Generally, companies use the descriptive approach to decisions, by performing
an analysis based only on historical data. The focus solely on the past makes it difficult
to concentrate on new strategies for the future. The proposition of the present work also
considers this descriptive approach, but it recognizes the value of the predictive approach
in order to provide recommendations to solve a decision problem, based on decision-
makers’ knowledge and judgment, and information technology: Big Data, BI, and DSS.
The Big Data study performed here started with the analysis of the data’s influence
over the decision-making process by ensuring that decision-makers can discover oppor‐
tunities to act problem solving.
The  contributions of the theoretical approach presented here are (i) develop a
perspective that combines the decision-making process, Big Data, BI, DSS, and organ‐
izational learning and (ii) use the concept that Big Data works as a data provider over
which may be applied BI techniques and tools may be applied ly in supporting the
discovery of opportunities for a decision.
Decision-makers, when preparing for making a decision, incorporate their knowl‐
edge and discernment along with an organizational learning process that will help them
to create an organizational memory that provides knowledge generated through the
process for later use. Thus, beyond technological toolsets and decision-making and
methodologies, the process described here takes into account the subjective character‐
istics linked to the decision-makers’ perceptions, experiences, and personalities.20
T. Poleto et al.
The use of Big Data provides to managers the possibility to explore both internal and
external information, not only identifying a decision problem but also having as proposal
the potential to increase de intelligence power within the decision-making process.
7
Conclusion
The increasing amount of data that arrives at organizations accumulate through elec‐
tronic communication is amazing, in that not only has the volume of the data change,
but also the variety of information collected in through several communication channels
ranging from clicks on the Internet to the unstructured information from social media.
In addition, the speed at which organizations can collect, analyze, and respond to infor‐
mation in different dimensions is increasing.
Big Data has become a generic term, but in essence, it presents two challenges for
organizations. First, business leaders must implement new technologies and then prepare
for a potential revolution in the collection and measurement of information. Second, and
most important, the organization as a whole must adapt to this new philosophy about
how decisions are made by understanding the real value of Big Data.
Organizations must understand the role of the Big Data associated with decision-
making, with the emphasis on creating opportunities from these decisions, because we
live in a world that is always connected, and where consumer preferences change every
hour. Thus, analysts can check multiple communication channels simultaneously and
trace certain profiles or decider behaviors.
The  contribution of this work is to promote the integrated view of Big Data,
BI and DSS inside the context of decision-making process, assisting managers to create
new opportunities to resolve a specific problem.
The crucial point is to look widely for new sources of data to help a decision.
Furthermore, Big Data not only transforms the processes of management and technology
but it also promotes changes in culture and learning in organizations.
Ultimately, Big Data can be very useful if used adequately in the decision-making
process, but just its use will not guide the decision itself and it will not generate alter‐
natives or predict the results. For this, the participation of decision-makers is essential,
as their experience and tacit knowledge are necessary to aggregate value over informa‐
tion and the possible knowledge stored.
From this initial study, where the idea of get an integrated view of all these 
as decision-making tools, we can create a set of perspectives to apply in future
researches, as example a detailed exploration focused on each  of the model. Other
ideas: semantic exploration of Big Data applied to decision problems structuring, direct
integration between Big Data and BI tools to fulfil organizational repositories 
data to the information systems.

