Bigdata Platforms and Bigdata Analytics Software focuses on providing efficient analytics for extremely large datasets. These analytics helps the organisations to gain insight, by turning data into high quality information, providing deeper insights about the business situation. This enables the business to take advantage of the digital universe. IBM Bigdata Analytics, HP Bigdata , SAP Bigdata Analytics, Microsoft Bigdata, Oracle Bigdata Analytics, Talend Open Studio, Teradata Bigdata Analytics, SAS Big data, Dell Bigdata Analytics, HPCC System Big data, Palantir Bigdata, Pivotal Bigdata, Google BigQuery, Pentaho Big Data Analytics, Amazon Web Service, Cloudera Enterprise Bigdata, Hortonworks Data Platform, FICO Bigdata Analytics, Cisco Bigdata, Splunk Bigdata Analytics, Fusion-io Bigdata, Intel Bigdata, Mu Sigma Bigdata, MicroStrategy Bigdata , Opera Solutions Bigdata, Redhat Bigdata, Informatica Bigdata, MarkLogic Bigdata, Vmware Bigdata, Syncsort Bigdata, SGI Bigdata, MongoDB , Guavus Bigdata, Alteryx Bigdata, 1010data Advanced Analytics, Actian Analytics Platform, MapR, Tableau Software bigdata, QlikView Bigdata, Attivio’s Bigdata, DataStax Bigdata, Gooddata, Google Bigdata, Datameer, CSC Big Data Platform, Flytxt, Amdocs, Cisco Bigdata, Platfora and GE Bigdata are some of the Big data Analytics Platforms and Software in no particular order.
1. IBM Bigdata Analytics

IBM Bigdata Analytics solution portfolio  InfoSphere Streams , InfoSphere BigInsights , IBM Watson Explorer , IBM PureData powered by Netezza technology , DB2 with BLU Acceleration , IBM Smart Analytics System , InfoSphere Information Server and InfoSphere Master Data Management.2. HP Bigdata

HP’s Bigdata Analytics solution  HP HAVEn and HP Vertica. HP HAVEn is a platform comprised of software, services, and hardware. Big Data of any type either structured and unstructured can be analyzed to lead to powerful strategic insights. HP Vertica Dragline let organizations store their data in a cost effective manner, and provide capabilities to explore it quickly using SQL based tools

3. SAP Bigdata Analytics

SAP Bigdata Analytics platform  In Memory Platform called, SAP HANA, and SAP IQ, which is a column oriented, grid based, massively parallel processing database. There is also SAP HANA platform and Apache Hadoop solution available together. Bigdata Analytics solutions include the Predictive Analytics and Text Analytics solutions.




4. Microsoft Bigdata

Microsoft Azure is an open and flexible cloud platform which enables to quickly build, deploy and manage applications across a global network of Microsoft-managed datacenters. The applications can be  using any language, tool or framework and can integrated with other public cloud applications in the IT environment.



5. Oracle Bigdata Analytics

Oracle Bigdata Analytics solutions include Oracle Big Data Appliance, Oracle Exadata Database Machine and Oracle Exalytics In-Memory Machine. These are engineered Systems which are pre-integrated to reduce the cost and complexity of IT infrastructures. The database include Oracle Database, Oracle NoSQL Database, MySQL and MySQL Cluster, Oracle Event Processing, Oracle NoSQL Database and Oracle Coherence, Oracle Endeca Information  and in database analytics.




6. Talend Open Studio

Talend Open Studio is a versatile set of open source products for developing, testing, deploying and administrating data management and application integration projects. Talend delivers the only unified platform that makes data management and application integration easier by providing a unified environment for managing the entire lifecycle across enterprise boundaries.
Talend’s products dramatically lower the adoption barrier for businesses wanting powerful packaged solutions to operational challenges like data cleansing, master data management, and enterprise service bus deployment. Leveraging and extending leading Apache technologies, Talend’s open source ESB and open source SOA solutions help organizations to build flexible, high-performance enterprise architectures that integrate and service-enable distributed applications.


7. Teradata Bigdata Analytics

Teradata has  a simple architecture called, the Unified Data Architecture in Bigdata Analytics. The Teradata Aster  Platform ease the  of crucial business insights from all data types. With its powerful analytic applications coupled with minimal time and effort requirements, it provides the  insights needed for sophisticated companies today.

8. SAS Bigdata Analytics

SAS Bigdata Analytics solution portfolio  Credit Scoring for SAS Enterprise Miner, SAS High-Performance Data Mining, SAS Model Manager, SAS Scoring Accelerator, SAS Text Miner and SAS Visual Statistics.

9. Dell Bigdata Analytics

Dell Bigdata Analytics  Kitenga Analytics Suite, Boomi AtomSphere and SharePlex Connector for Hadoop. Kitenga Analytics Suite provides you with integrated information modeling and visualization capabilities in a big data search and business analytics platform.

10. HPCC Systems Big data

HPCC Systems is an Open-source platform for Big Data analysis. The Data Refinery engine called Thor, clean, link, transform and analyze Big Data. Thor supports ETL (Extraction, Transformation and Loading) functions like ingesting unstructured/structured data out, data profiling, data hygiene, and data linking out of the box. The Data Delivery engine (Roxie) provides highly concurrent and low latency real time query capability. The Thor processed data can be accessed by a large number of users concurrently in real time fashion using the Roxie. The programming language, Enterprise Control Language (ECL), is used to program both the data processing jobs on Thor and the queries on Roxie.

HPCC Systems is an Open-source platform for Big Data analysis.

HPCC Systems is an Open-source platform for Big Data analysis.
11. Palantir Bigdata

Palantir Bigdata solution  Palantir Gotham to integrate, manage, secure, and analyze all of the enterprise data and Palantir Metropolis to ntegrate, enrich, model, and analyze any kind of quantitative data.

12. Pivotal Bigdata

Pivotal Big Data solutions help to discover insight from all data to build applications that serve customers in the context to store, manage, and deliver value from , massive data sets using the most disruptive set of enterprise data products such as MPP and column store databases, in-memory data processing, and Hadoop.

13. Google BigQuery

Google BigQuery is a web service that enables companies to analyze massive datasets using Google’s infrastructure . This can analyze up to billions of rows in seconds. It is scalable and easy to use with the the familiar SQL query language. BigQuery lets developers and businesses tap into powerful data analytics on demand against multi-terabyte datasets in seconds.

14. Pentaho Big Data Analytics

Pentaho Big Data Analytics s a comprehensive and unified solution that supports the entire big data lifecycle. Regardless of the data source, within a single platform the solution provides visual big data analytics tools to extract and prepare the data plus the visualizations and analytics. The Open, standards based architecture, make it easy to integrate with or extend existing infrastructure.

15. Amazon Web Service

Amazon Web Services provides cloud based analytics services to help you process and analyze any volume of data, whether your need is for managed Hadoop clusters, real-time streaming data, petabyte scale data warehousing, or orchestration.

16. Cloudera Enterprise Bigdata

Cloudera Enterprise  CDH, the open source Hadoop-based platform, as well as advanced system management and data management tools plus dedicated support and community advocacy .

17. Hortonworks Data Platform

HDP is a platform for multi-workload data processing across an array of processing methods – from batch through interactive to real-time – all supported with solutions for governance, integration, security and operations.

18. FICO Bigdata Analytics

FICO s comprehensive Big Data Analytics software solutions, Predictive Analytics and Business Intelligence tools  FICO Data Orchestrator, FICO Decision Management Platform, FICO Decision Optimizer, FICO Model Builder, FICO Model Central Solution, FICO Predictive Analytics and FICO Solution Stack.

19. Cisco Bigdata

Cisco UCS Common Platform Architecture (CPA) for big data  computing, storage, connectivity, and unified management capabilities. Unique to this architecture are transparent, simplified data and management integration with an enterprise application ecosystem.

20. Splunk Bigdata Analytics

Splunk s a portfolio of Bigdata Analytics software such as Hunk: Splunk Analytics for Hadoop, NoSQL Data Stores, Splunk Hadoop Connect, Hadoop Management and Splunk DB Connect.

21. Fusion-io Bigdata

Fusion-io solutions eliminate the random workload performance deficiencies common to MongoDB, Cassandra and NoSQL databases, such as HBASE, while reducing the operational overhead of their conventional scale out architectures. Fusion based solutions deliver predictable and consistently high performance across the entire database, resulting in a more efficient overall system that can require fewer nodes, less DRAM, and use less energy for power and cooling.

22. Intel Bigdata

Intel portfolio  technology products such as Intel Xeon processors, 10 Gigabit server adapters, SSDs, and the Intel Distribution improve performance for big data projects.

23. Mu Sigma Bigdata

Mu Sigma’s platforms for Data Sciences include muXo, muHPC and muText. muXo is an advanced decision optimization engine  to solve complex business problems. It provides a suite of constantly evolving, cutting-edge meta-heuristic algorithms. muHPC is a suite of popular statistical algorithms, integrated in the form of R packages, for Big Data analysis. Written in MapReduce, muHPCTM algorithms leverage the power of parallel computation. Mu Sigma’s text mining engine enables knowledge  from unstructured and semi-structured data .

24. MicroStrategy Bigdata

MicroStrategy Bigdata solution called PRIME, which is deployed on the Cloud, provides visualization and dashboarding engine with an innovative massively parallel in-memory data store. This architecture allows companies to rapidly build and deploy powerful information-driven apps that deliver analytics to hundreds of thousands of users in a fraction of the time and cost of other approaches.

25. Opera Solutions Bigdata

Opera Solutions Bigdata solution Vektor Big Data analytics and Signal-processing platform integrates Big Data flows from both inside and outside the enterprise; provides the technology to identify, extract, and store Signals; and supports deployment of all Signal Apps.

26. Redhat Bigdata

Majority of big data implementations run on Linux. Red Hat Enterprise Linux is a leading platform for big data deployments. Red Hat Enterprise Linux excels in distributed architectures and  features that  critical big data needs. Managing tremendous data volumes and intensive analytic processing requires an infrastructure  for high performance, reliability, fine-grained resource management, and scale-out storage.

27. Informatica Bigdata

Informatica PowerCenter Big Data Edition provides a safe, efficient way to integrate all types of data on Hadoop at any scale without having to learn Hadoop.

28. MarkLogic Bigdata

MarkLogic Bigdata solution the Enterprise NoSQL database, brings all the features into one unified system: a document-centric, schema-agnostic, structure-aware, clustered, transactional, secure, database server with -in search and a full suite of application services.

29. Vmware Bigdata

vSphere is a robust, high-performance virtualization layer that abstracts server hardware resources and makes them shareable by multiple virtual machines. Runs Hadoop workloads on vSphere to achieve higher utilization, reliability and agility.

30. Syncsort Bigdata

Syncsort Hadoop Solutions helps on the challenges of collecting, processing and integrating data in Hadoop. It remove barriers for wider Hadoop adoption: connect, develop, deploy, re-use, and accelerate. No programming or tuning are required.

31. SGI Bigdata

SGI InfiniteData Cluster s the compute platform for Hadoop Solutions with cluster installations now reaching tens of thousands of nodes.SGI UV s the solution with the industry’s most powerful shared memory platform to find hidden data relationships or perform real-time analysis.

32. MongoDB

MongoDB is the leading NoSQL database, empowering businesses to be more agile and scalable. Fortune 500 companies and startups alike are using MongoDB to create new types of applications, improve customer experience, accelerate time to market and reduce costs.

33. Guavus Bigdata

The Guavus Reflex platform is capable of creating actionable information from widely distributed, high volume data streams in near real-time. Reflex uses highly optimized computational algorithms and machine learning to distill actionable insights from very large datasets.

34. Alteryx Bigdata

Alteryx Bigdata solution access, integration, and cleaning of sources of data as varied as Hadoop ( Cloudera & MapR) or NoSQL (MongoDB) and Excel or Teradata with predictive and spatial tools, combined in a simple, workflow design environment.

35. 1010data Advanced Analytics

The 1010data analytics platform  advanced, -in analytic functions such as Statistics (distribution analysis, correlation, variance),Predictive modeling and forecasting (linear and multivariate regression, logistic regression), Machine learning (clustering analysis, Markov chains for Monte Carlo simulations, principal component analysis). These functions are integrated directly into the system, so they run incredibly quickly on large volumes of data

36. Actian Analytics Platform

Actian Analytics Platform deliver the next generation analytics in three editions- Extreme Performance Edition, Hadoop SQL Edition, Cloud Edition.Extreme Performance Edition accelerates the analytics value chain from connecting to massive amounts of raw big data all the way to delivering actionable business value from sophisticated analytics. Hadoop SQL Edition accelerates Hadoop and makes it enterprise-grade by providing high-performance data enrichment, visual design and SQL analytics on Hadoop without the need for MapReduce skills. Cloud Edition integrates cloud and on-premises applications while providing robust data quality and other data services.

37. MapR

The MapR Distribution for Apache Hadoop provides organizations with an enterprise grade distributed data platform to reliably store and process big data. MapR packages a broad set of Apache open source ecosystem projects enabling batch, interactive, or real time applications.

38. Tableau Software bigdata

Tableau Software bigdata solutions connect to any data, anytime and anywhere, regardless of its size and complexity or mix of unstructured and structured data with the technologies like Google BigQuery and a variety of Hadoop flavors.

39. QlikView Bigdata

QlikView s two approaches to handling Big Data, both deliver the same great user experience. Either with QlikView’s 100% In-Memory Architecture or QlikView Direct , which is a hybrid approach that leverages both in-memory data and data that is dynamically queried from an external source.

40. Attivio’s Bigdata

Attivio’s Active Intelligence Engine combines Big Data and Big Content,  Hadoop. Universal indexing and automatic ad hoc JOIN of all information matching a given query, without costly data modeling and with full security. There is also Advanced text analytics that adds context and signals from human-generated information sources and support for business intelligence/data visualization tools .

41. DataStax Bigdata

DataStax Enterprise (DSE), which is  on Apache Cassandra, delivers what Internet Enterprises need to compete in today. With in-memory computing capabilities, enterprise-level security,  and powerful integrated analytics and enterprise search, visual management, and expert support, DataStax Enterprise is the leading distributed database choice for online applications that require  performance with no downtime.

42. Gooddata

The GoodData Platform is a portfolio of tools, APIs and frameworks, which makes the key components of a BI solution to collect, store, combine, analyze, and visualize. These were  to exist in the cloud and be delivered as an end-to-end service.

GoodData

GoodData
43. Google Bigdata

Google Cloud Platform surfaces the same analytical engines invented and used by Google for nearly two decades to help unearth insight in your business and operational environment. Google Cloud Platform leads the industry in the ability to let you analyze data at the scale of the entire web, with the familiarity of SQL and in a fully managed, serverless architecture where backend infrastructure is fully handled on your behalf.The big data analytics products are able to scale automatically while you focus only on the business insight you want to uncover.

44. Datameer

Datameer Professional, is a SaaS big data analytics platform targeted for department specific deployments. Datameer ing features leading Hadoop cloud providers Altiscale and Bigstep. Datameer simplifies the big data analytics environment into a single application on top of the powerful Hadoop platform.

45. CSC Big Data Platform

CSC Big Data Platform as a Service (BDPaaS) helps enterprises leap past these hurdles and get value from their data much more quickly. With BDPaaS, enterprises can rapidly develop, secure and deploy next-generation big data and analytics applications with a centralized, subscription-based platform that uses leading analytics tools, infrastructure and software.

46. Flytxt Big Data Analytics platform

Flytxt’s Big Data Analytics platform is  to integrate  Data, Big Data for deriving deeper actionable insights. It follows a hybrid architecture combining scale out clusters running Hadoop with traditional RDBMS as a metadata store and an in-memory database for Real time transactional data processing.

47. Amdocs Insight Big Data Analytics Platform

Amdocs Insight Big Data Analytics Platform supports a wide variety of Amdocs analytical applications and data services to facilitate new revenues, drive business efficiency and enhance the customer experience.

48. Cisco Bigdata

Cisco provide integrated infrastructures and analytics to support our big data partner ecosystem. Cisco UCS Integrated Infrastructure for Big Data architecture provides a secure and scalable infrastructure. Cisco is bringing the computing and analytics to the data to take advantage of the valuable insight that it reveals.

49. Platfora

 on Hadoop, Spark and native cloud APIs, Platfora’s technology helps it fit in just about anywhere  your existing analytics ecosystem, hardware and BI tools.

50. GE Bigdata

The Industrial Internet co ordinate multiple industrial applications to work intelligently in order to optimize entire operational environments.

