JULIE DEVOLL: This is Julie Devoll from Harvard Business Press. I’m here today with Tom Davenport, the President’s Distinguished Professor of Information Technology and Management at Babson College and author of the new book, Analytics at Work: Smarter Decisions, Better Results.

Tom, thank you for joining us today.

TOM DAVENPORT: My pleasure, Julie.

JULIE DEVOLL: Tom, let’s first get everybody up to speed on analytics. Can you give us a quick definition of what you mean when you talk about organizations competing on analytics?

TOM DAVENPORT: Well, by analytics we mean the systematic use of data and facts and typically, quantitative, but can be qualitative as well, analysis to make decisions. And this book is really about how any company can become more analytical in its decisions, more fact-based if you will.

My the first book on this topic, Competing on Analytics, was how companies can really get competitive advantage out of analytics. And we found that a number of organizations said, we like the idea of becoming more analytical, but we’re not sure that we want to make it our primary source of competitive advantage. So this book is how any company can do more of that kind of decision-making.

JULIE DEVOLL: Great. So let’s hone in a little on analytical leadership. What do you see analytical leaders doing that allows them to make better decisions?

TOM DAVENPORT: Well, it’s a variety of things. One is that they insist on decisions being made on the basis of facts. So you see these kinds of leaders pushing back when people say, I think we should develop this particular product, or we should make this change to our website, or whatever. The best companies will say, well, where’s the data to support that particular hypothesis?

One of the great examples of that is Google. There’s such a highly analytical culture at Google that you can’t really recommend any sort of change, a new product, or God knows, a change on the Search page without having substantial amounts of data that would suggest that it’s a good idea. Having tried it out on a small scale and how did that particular randomized experiment work? So it’s just establishing a culture that says we make decisions around data here. Maybe not all the time, maybe if we can’t get data, we obviously don’t let that paralyze us. But that’s a big factor.

And I think for leaders setting a personal example. If you’re making decisions from the gut yourself, as an individual, and then telling other people that they need to have data, then they are going to see that you’re not really that serious about it.

So we talk, for example, about two brothers, the McCann’s, Jim and Chris McCann, who run 1800flowers.com, and Jim, the CEO and founder, who was originally a social worker was originally not that analytical. His brother, Chris, much more so. And over time, Jim has come to see that he needs to ask for data as well, so that he can set that kind of personal example that others will believe in and emulate.

JULIE DEVOLL: So it sounds like companies need to manage their analytical talent as a strategic resource. How do you recommend HR departments go about actually finding these people, hiring them, and then retaining them once they’re brought on board?

TOM DAVENPORT: I think it is one of the key assets and because it’s limited in availability, there are only so many good, quantitative people around who are also good communicators that I think it will be a real strategic resource for the organizations that get those people at a relatively early stage and kind of lock them up. Obviously, nobody is totally locked up. But if you hire them and you provide them with challenging work, and my co-author Jeanne Harris did some research suggesting that the more centralized approaches to managing analysts, putting them in a center of excellence, or somehow managing them at the enterprise level, maybe it’s a centralized consulting group. More centralized approaches tended to create more engaged analysts who were, it would seem, more likely to hang around. They enjoyed their jobs, were more satisfied and engage in their work.

So I think analysts are kind of a special breed sometimes, and they don’t want to be acting as solo practitioners. They’d like to be able to share ideas with other people. They’d like to feel like there were a valued resource and hence, not only one of them in a department or a business unit. So maybe that explains why the more centralized approaches to managing and organizing analysts tended to be the more successful in terms of yielding happy analysts.

JULIE DEVOLL: So you mentioned Progressive Insurance. What are some other examples, or maybe one good example of a successful company that uses analytics to make better decisions?

TOM DAVENPORT: Well, there are lots of examples in the book. I mentioned 1-800 Flowers as well. We profile Carnival Cruises. But I probably center in on the companies that have some decisions that are common and repetitive, if you will, made a lot of time, so they have good data on them. Google is certainly a great example. We talk about Amazon a fair amount, which makes a lot of decisions around pricing and supply chain and promotions with analytics. Certainly their web page, Jeff Bezos once fired, supposedly, 10 out of 12 web designers because they did not use analytics in the design of the web pages that they proposed.

In retail, you have companies like Kroger that are very good now at targeting promotions. JC Penney very good at merchandising decisions. Best Buy uses analytics a lot for segmentation. We talk a fair amount about Best Buy.

Generally what you don’t find, Julie, is a lot of companies using analytics for the really big decisions. Things like a merger, or acquisition, or a really big new product development project. The one exception that we found and talk about in the book is Chevron, which basically, they have a requirement that if you’re making a decision that involves more than $100 million dollars, which is not a huge number for a big oil company like Chevron. But if you’re making a decision that’s going to involve that much capital, you have to follow a certain quantitative decision analysis approach. And they’ve been generally quite successful at the kinds of decisions that they made, and they go back and have a mandatory review of how did that decision work out. So I think overall, it works very well for them.

JULIE DEVOLL: Great. So I’ll put you on the spot a little bit here. What are some companies that you’re seeing out there that haven’t been successful, and maybe an analytical approach to their decision-making may have helped them?

TOM DAVENPORT: Well, I think, I mentioned some retailers that have been pretty successful. Certainly historically, the department stores, Macy’s, for example, has not been highly analytical. They’re trying to change and they’ve hired the same consulting firm that Kroger has been using to try to help them out. But I think probably led to some deterioration in their success over time. I think they thought maybe if we acquire every other department store in the land that will be enough. But it didn’t turn out to be.

I think industry-wise, probably health care is one of the least analytical industries that we have in the united States anyway, just because we don’t have good data.

Now, of course, the government is now encouraging through financial stimulus, basically every hospital and physician practice to get electronic medical records. That will create a vast amount of data, and then we’ll be able to analyze it and figure out which medical interventions work well and which ones don’t. But right now, it’s definitely an underachiever in terms of analytics.

I’d say retail, overall, has been an underachieving industry. In part because they just didn’t have the profit margins to devote to the analysts, paying the analysts to do that work. They relied in many cases, particularly in grocery, on the consumer products firms. But they’ve gotten a lot better. And companies like Walmart and JC Penney and so on have started to get a lot better at it. Target as well.

JULIE DEVOLL: So Tom, I’ll just conclude by asking, what do you see next in the field of analytics?

TOM DAVENPORT: One of the things we try to focus on in this book is creating a closer linkage between analytics and decision-making. Because after we wrote Competing on Analytics we found a number of analysts who would tell us, we did that marketing analysis, but nothing changed. We continued to make the same bad marketing decisions we’ve always made. Or the analytics were maybe telling us that some of these investments we made in financial services firms were not doing so well. Yet, we continue to go with those investments. So I think creating stronger ties between analytics and decision-making are a big thing from kind of a management standpoint.

From a technology standpoint, I think we’re going to see a whole new class of data emerging from sensors all over the place. Some people call them smart dust. They’re going to be so many sensors everywhere, they’re all going to generate data, and we have to analyze it to get some value. We’re going to see things like video analytics, so that we’ll know somebody in a retail environment. Are they actually looking at a product and deciding not to do it, or do they just not pay any attention at all?

For security purposes, we have all these video cameras now. We don’t have enough people to look at them all, so we’ll need analytics to deal with terrorism and intelligence issues and so on.

I think we need analytics for all the social media out there. To know, does it really make a difference if you tweet about something? Are you more likely to buy it? We have some very rough tools for sentiment analysis now, but hardly anybody even uses those. I think we’ll see a lot more analytics relative to the social media and social networks. So those are just a few of the things that are coming down the road I think. 
