7
Strategy&
In the regulatory arena, new oversight requirements since the financial 
crisis have expanded the categories of data that financial-services firms 
need to manage, process, and disseminate. For example, new capital 
and risk analytics will be required to efficiently manage Basel III and 
Dodd-Frank. 
Finally, consumer habits and expectations are changing rapidly, driving 
some consumers to switch their banks and insurance providers. Social 
sites such as Facebook, Twitter, and Pinterest have whetted people’s 
appetite for more comprehensive information, and retail sites such as 
Amazon and eBay are broadly influencing customer experience 
expectations. Google and eBay are quickly entering into the payments 
space, demonstrating how nontraditional competitors can enter the 
landscape via a data advantage. 
The end result for the industry will be a new group of high-margin 
business opportunities. This is good news for the industry as a whole, 
but it is also likely to attract outside firms with expertise in monetizing 
data. Think of PayPal and Google Wallet as the first of these new 
competitors. Companies from the computer industry could easily give 
some established financial firms a run for their money. Strategy& 
estimates that leading financial firms risk losing 10 percent or more of 
their potential top-line revenue to nonfinancial competitors within the 
next few years if they do not move aggressively to transform the 
enterprise today.
8
Strategy&
Five basic business models 
The first step in seizing the opportunities of data monetization is 
picking an appropriate business model for your data and analytics 
transformation strategy. There are five basic models — five ways to use 
data profitably and effectively (
see Exhibit 2
). Together they make up a 
spectrum of activity for transforming your approach to information:
• 
Your current core business, improved through use of enhanced data
• 
Better return on your marketing investment using insights about 
your customers or transactions
Leverage enhanced 
data for core 
business
Generate new 
insights
White-label 
capabilities & 
infrastructure
Create new data
Develop new businesses
Enter adjacent businesses
Enhance current business
Create new offerings
– 
Seek opportunities to 
enrich existing service 
thr
ough new data 
sour
ces
– 
Develop and leverage 
new platforms 
– 
Deliver enhanced 
services (e.g., in r
eal 
time) 
– Understand deep client 
insights
– Enhance marketing 
campaign ROI and 
conversion 
– Monetize existing 
analytics capabilities via 
white labeling to clients 
and other partners 
acr
oss the value chain 
– Commer
cialize 
infrastructur
e to sell 
platforms as a service 
– Partner with adjacent 
players acr
oss the 
business value chain
– Identify new sour
ces of 
data (e.g., unstructur
ed) 
to join with existing data 
sets 
– Monetize new sets 
of data 
– Develop new sets 
of analytics and 
data pr
oducts (e.g., 
benchmarks, tools)
– Develop new pr
oducts 
that benefit fr
om 
enhanced data and 
analytics (e.g., re
al-time 
net asset value, active 
non-disclosed exchange 
traded funds) 
Exhibit 2
Data and analytics transformation spectrum
Source: Strategy& 
9
Strategy&
• 
White-label capabilities and infrastructure delivered by other firms
• 
Delivery of new types of data directly to customers
• 
New products and services made possible by data and analytics 
All these business models will generate incremental revenue. However, 
some are more transformative than others — in other words, they are 
more likely to reshape your business overall. Financial-services firms 
that are creating new data and developing data and analytics products 
are truly evolving into something more like a technology business. They 
may even start to enjoy the higher valuation multiples associated with 
technology and data firms. 
Corporate leaders can ask themselves a series of questions to 
understand where they would best fit on the data and analytics 
transformation spectrum:
1. 
Does my firm have a strong product set but limited conversions, 
cross-sells, or marketing results? 
2. 
Do I own the market in key categories but have trouble enticing 
customers with new products? 
3. 
Do customers need my products in real time or integrated with 
common industry platforms?
4. 
Is my firm’s accessible data robust? For example, do I see 20 percent 
or more of the industry’s transactions or volume?
5. 
Can I partner with others to improve the quality, value, and delivery 
of my data?
6. 
Can I use data to develop products and services in adjacent or new 
business sectors?
The answers to these questions will help a company identify the 
best business model for its data and analytics transformation strategy 
(
see Exhibit 3, next page
). Frequently, companies will pursue more than 
one of these models to reach various customers and address different 
needs.
13
Strategy&
Case study: Tesco
market adjacencies offer new opportunities to leverage your data. 
For example, by understanding how merchants interact with order 
management system vendors, a payments company can identify 
potential partnerships and opportunities for its data. One merchant 
might benefit from a better understanding of segment-specific demand 
patterns; another might benefit from understanding sales volume by 
time of day. To identify these relationships and opportunities, it’s 
helpful to map the data ecosystem to see your adjacent relationships, 
as well as those relationships’ adjacent relationships, and so on. 
Size the value:
 Understanding the market opportunity for 
commercializing data is a key design principle. Each of these business 
models can yield a substantial internal rate of return; indeed, each of 
them can be self-funded with the right design. One reason is that 
U.K.-based supermarket giant Tesco is a 
prime example of a nonfinancial company 
that’s using data to compete effectively 
with traditional financial players. Until 
2008, the company ran Tesco Bank as a 
50/50 joint venture with the Royal Bank 
of Scotland. That year Tesco bought out 
RBS and began developing a completely 
new infrastructure for the business, 
built a new team, and brought in new 
expertise. The transition was not always 
smooth — for instance, online customers 
were locked out of accounts for several 
days in 2011 when Tesco moved data 
from the RBS systems to its own — but 
it’s now complete. To fully exploit this 
treasure trove of data, the company took 
a significant stake in Dunnhumby, a U.K. 
data mining firm that will help Tesco 
monetize the consumer data from both 
the retail and banking operations. 
At its core, Tesco Bank is underpinned by 
the Clubcard. The insights the bank gains 
from the Clubcard customer data allow 
the company to understand customer 
needs and make the most relevant offers 
in the store and in the bank. The Clubcard 
credit card rewards customers with points 
whenever they use their card — one 
Clubcard point for every £4 (US$6.12) 
spent. Clubcard customers can also receive 
preferential deals when buying Tesco Bank 
products — including discounts on car, 
home, pet, and travel insurance — and can 
use points to buy Tesco Bank insurance. 
This year, Tesco Bank gave customers 
around £70 million (US$107 million) 
worth of points to spend in the store or 
on Clubcard rewards. In terms of systems 
and IT, Tesco’s new platforms significantly 
improve customer service. Instant decisions 
are now possible on loan applications, 
and customers can open and fund savings 
accounts in just 10 minutes rather than the 
two weeks required in the past. 
The conversion is still in its early days, 
but Tesco’s efforts are paying dividends 
in the form of increased market share 
across a range of products. In 2009, Tesco 
Bank credit cards made up 9 percent 
of all MasterCard and Visa credit card 
transactions in the U.K., and by 2012 
that figure had grown to 12 percent. 
Meanwhile, from 2008 to 2012, the 
company’s car insurance gross written 
premiums increased by 39 percent and 
pet insurance gross written premiums 
rose 44 percent.
14
Strategy&
investing to digitize your business can save 25 to 35 percent in 
operating costs. To size value, you need to understand your competitors 
and your own key inputs — such as the various costs — as well as the 
marketplace demand for the data products.
Enhance the infrastructure: 
At the foundation of the data strategy must 
be an information technology infrastructure that is sophisticated, 
transparent, and flexible enough for a company to unlock the value of 
its data. At a minimum, the infrastructure needs to provide single 
sources of data truth, real-time data for messaging and transactions that 
can be monetized (even without additional analytics), and a highly 
available infrastructure.
These five core design principles should guide your practice as you 
design and execute your strategy for monetizing data. You will invest 
and manage a host of new activities (
see Exhibit 4
). They will enable you 
to build the capabilities you need for the data gold rush. 
Exhibit 4
Building capabilities for the data gold rush
Source: Strategy& 
Investment in 
continuous 
improvement
Cataloging & 
mapping 
existing data
Developing 
insight 
adjacencies
Combining 
structured & 
unstructured data
Building data 
infrastructure
- Invest in continuous lear
ning and management of clients’ or customers’ unmet needs acr
oss the value chain.
- Truly understand the delivery and integration models that clients r
equire
 to benefit fr
om enhancements to 
products or new pr
oducts and services.
- Understand, catalog, and map data housed acr
oss all business lines.
- Map data and analytics services acr
oss business units to understand what types of capabilities can be 
leveraged to build new pr
oducts and services. 
- Determine additional opportunities acr
oss the value chain by developing insights into adjacencies, for both 
data and partners.
- Create a compr
ehensive view of the data ecosystem.
- Combine “inter
nally owned” structur
ed data with both inte
rnal and exter
nally sour
ced semi-structur
ed and 
unstructur
ed data, market data, telemetry data, etc.
- Seek out opportunities to enhance the cor
e business or develop new pr
oducts and services.
- Put in place a data infrastructur
e that can pr
ovide the necessary foundation to enable the or
ganization to 
unlock the value of data assets. 
- Continue to evaluate cor
e capabilities to determine what suits the particular situation best
.
15
Strategy&
Conclusion
Most financial-services companies still don’t think of their data as an 
asset they can monetize if they build the right capabilities. They’re 
overlooking an opportunity in plain sight. Not only can they make 
better use of their data to enhance products and services for current 
clients, but new technologies now allow them to take the next step and 
combine their data with external data. This marriage will create 
powerful new insights into the customer and supply base and could 
transform the enterprise, unleashing a whole new generation of high-
margin products and services for current customers and customers in 
adjacent markets. The enormous revenue potential will not go ignored 
by others. If financial-services firms don’t embark on data-led 
transformations to seize this opportunity, more nimble nonfinancial 
