MAke The MosT of Your AnAl
YTicAl T
AlenT
There are many implementations of analytic CoEs out there. However, a large 
percentage of them can be described as specialized shared-service organizations. 
These organizations receive requests from the business community to apply analytics 
to solve problems. 
There is no question that these types of structures provide value to the organization, 
but they may not be able to change the internal culture without having a much 
closer connection and integration with the various business units where many better 
decisions could be enabled. When used in an ad hoc way and without the right level 
of executive sponsorship, these shared-service organizations are limited in their 
ability to have more lasting effects on the way decisions are made and the quality of 
those decisions.  
Many of these shared-service organizations are set up to deal with requirements from 
a project perspective. Each project has a scope, deliverable and start and end dates. 
Because of this setup, it may be difficult to identify the root cause of data issues 
such as data consistency, availability of master data, data quality and integration. 
Consequently, those working on a project may not be able to make changes 
to address the root cause of problems. Many data extraction and manipulation 
tasks tend to be repeated. Another challenge can be where people report within 
organizational structures. Continuous executive support and high internal visibility are 
required to empower any analytic CoE to put the results of analytics to work and to 
implement changes to facilitate future and more advanced applications of analytics.
More Strategic and Effective Implementation of an 
Analytic CoE
The best implementations of analytic CoEs have these traits:
•  Partnering with business stakeholders for ongoing success.
•  High-level executive sponsorship.
•  Sufficient prominence in the organizational hierarchy to have visibility and impact.
•  A reputation for proven results, excellent work ethic and ability to deploy results 
that affect decision making.
Such strategic implementations will have the highest chance of promoting 
widespread analytically driven decisions and surfacing new opportunities.
All CoEs share many common components and characteristics. 
The following diagram illustrates the key possible focus areas and functions for 
analytic centers of excellence. It is important to point out that not all of these 
functions need to be managed by the analytic CoE. However, addressing these 
functions is critical to ensure that analytics is used in an efficient, repeatable and 
effective manner within the organization.
4
14
MAke The MosT of Your AnAl
YTicAl T
AlenT
The internal culture should effectively and continuously address the following key 
areas:
•  Communication of the organization’s business priorities and objectives.
•  Alignments of internal groups, resources and information management and 
analytical efforts around the changing organizational priorities and direction.
•  Providing the incentives and mandate to foster collaboration and information 
sharing between organization units on a consistent basis.
•  Demonstrating the value of analytics and information in general as a corporate 
asset.
•  Rewarding individuals and groups for demonstrating effective applications and use 
of analytics and information in the decision-making process.
•  Facilitating acceptance of change by business units and resources.
The analytic CoE will play a significant role in working very closely with the business 
representatives to guide and facilitate the adoption of these key requirements.
Organizational Benefits 
A properly implemented analytic center of excellence will provide your organization 
with the following key benefits:
•  An effective way to use existing analytical skills.
•  A structure and set of processes to develop and promote best practices.
•  Support for ad hoc analytical requirements, but more importantly, the 
establishment of the framework and foundation to implement repeatable and 
more strategic analyses in an efficient way.
•  A much-needed link and alignment between the business, analytical efforts and 
the organization’s technology infrastructure. Alignment between the business, 
analytical resources and IT is a critical requirement to enable effective use of 
analytics. Analysts will be able to use their skills to apply effective analytics to 
support decision making and organizational objectives.
•  Support for analytical resources by allowing them to focus more on analytical 
issues and less on data management and data quality tasks.
•  The establishment of a solid, consistent communication and alignment between 
the business community, especially the decision makers and the analytical 
resources who conduct the analysis. This is the foundation needed to change the 
internal culture to one that understands the value of analytics and uses a fact-
based decision-making approach.
MAke The MosT of Your AnAl
YTicAl T
AlenT
15
Approaches for Establishing an Analytic CoE
The objective of analytic centers of excellence is focused on maximizing the 
organizational benefit from the investment in data and analytics. The discussions 
presented by this paper have highlighted the four critical organizational dimensions 
that form the foundations necessary to gain the highest possible value from the 
investment. The maturity, interaction and alignment of these four dimensions provide 
essential requirements to identify the form, structure, vision and mandate of an 
effective CoE in each organization. Analytic centers of excellence, and any other type 
of centers of excellence, are not one-size-fits-all. Although there are common key 
characteristics in all centers of excellence, the most effective structure and type will 
have to be based on the nature and maturity of the four organizational dimensions 
in each unique organization. The common characteristics of all centers of excellence 
have been presented earlier in this paper.
The following key areas must be considered as organizations think about this 
valuable concept and about the approach to establishing an analytic CoE for their 
own environment:
• 
Degree of centralization versus decentralization
. Many organizational aspects 
need to be considered to determine the right approach. Some of these factors 
include the size of the organization, level of reach (global vs. local), the structure 
of the business units and technical and IT resources, the existing culture and level 
of collaboration between groups, the distribution of analytical resources, etc.
• 
Executive support
. The support from an executive level is essential for 
empowering the analytic CoE to produce accurate, repeatable and timely results 
from applying analytics. Collaboration and discussion between groups are 
necessary in many cases to collect the requirements and data to apply analytics 
and, more importantly, to use the results in the decision-making process. 
Many successful applications of analytics are promoted by the support of an 
executive in a business unit that has a clear vision and need to use analytics. 
Other implementations can have a broader scope to cover multiple business 
units or even the entire enterprise. The common requirement is to have high-level 
management support.
• 
Analytical skills
. The availability of analytical resources, skill levels and 
responsibilities are other critical factors. These analytical resources clearly are 
needed to move forward. However, there are options for organizations to explore 
if these resources are not available, if they are too few or if additional training is 
needed. Some of these options include outsourcing some or all the analytical 
work initially, or working with SAS and other partners in a collaborative way to 
provide the initial resources while acquiring new resources or training existing staff 
members.
16
MAke The MosT of Your AnAl
YTicAl T
AlenT
• 
Current data structure and quality
. The availability of required data, the level of 
data quality and the amount of data management that may be necessary to apply 
analytics are also key factors. To effectively address these areas, other technical 
resources and activities may be needed to facilitate and accelerate the use of 
analytics. Some of these needs may be addressed by existing resources. There 
are also options that include securing external resources to make progress and 
tap into industry best practices.
• 
Level and scope of the required analytical work
. There are many types 
of analytic applications that can support the decision-making process and 
strategy of organizations. Some of these analytical applications may be easier 
to perform than others. Some may require a high level of processing power to 
complete in a timely manner or specialized analytical skills. Another factor is how 
aggressively the organization is planning to use analytics and its time frame. 
Again, organizations may find it more cost-effective and faster to outsource some 
of these types of analytics. SAS offers different types of outsourcing services that 
can meet some of the most demanding analytical skills effectively. 
The above list is not comprehensive, but it covers the essential areas. An assessment 
of each one of these areas is recommended to identify an approach that balances the 
requirements and characteristics of each of these areas. SAS offers several types of 
services to assess the current environment of each organization and to develop the 
most effective approach to promote analytics and assist organizations in establishing 
their own analytic CoE. 
The following approaches can be considered as organizations explore options and 
assess the characteristics of their own environments:
• 
Outsourcing analytical projects
. This may be the appropriate approach to 
meet the need for a particular business unit, the entire organization or as an initial 
phase to train existing staff – or an occasional way to tap into additional analytic 
bandwidth and more effectively balance the workload.
• 
Outsourcing specific tasks
. Depending on the requirements and the available 
resources, certain analytical or even data management functions and steps may 
be outsourced. In some cases, organizations may be outsourcing some of these 
tasks. This process can be an initial phase, or it can be used on demand.
• 
Centralizing some or all functions
. In some cases, centralizing some of 
the analytical work or the data management work may be an effective way 
to optimally use available resources. The IT team, or other members of the 
organization, may be in the best position to take on the responsibilities of some 
key functions. Existing information governance and policies may also be used 
when appropriate to determine the best approach.
MAke The MosT of Your AnAl
YTicAl T
AlenT
17
• 
Decentralizing
. Depending on the need, the executive support and the readiness 
of internal groups, decentralizing specific analytical tasks may be the best 
approach to ensure that analytical work is closely aligned with the business 
requirements. This will require the availability and alignment of sufficient analytical 
resources in business units. From a best-practice standpoint, some information 
management tasks may still need to be centralize
