Customer analytics, also called customer data analytics, is the systematic examination of a company's customer information to identify, attract and retain the most profitable customers.

customer analytics (customer data analytics)

Sponsored News

    Three Use Cases for Interactive Data Discovery and Predictive Analytics
    –SAS Institute Inc.
    4 Ways to Leverage Information Governance for Improved Outcomes
    –Symantec
    See More

Vendor Resources

    Big Data BlackOut: Are Utilities Powering Up Their Data Analytics?
    –ComputerWeekly.com
    MIT Sloan Management Review: The Analytics Talent Dividend
    –SAS

Customer analytics, also called customer data analytics, is the systematic examination of a company's customer information to identify, attract and retain the most profitable customers. 
Download this free guide
Download our Guide: Create an Analytics Success Story

Learn how to gain executive approval and drive operational, cultural changes within your organization.

Customer analytics is often managed by an interdisciplinary group made up of business owners from different departments within the company, including marketing, sales, customer service, IT and business analysts. In order to be effective, the group must first agree upon which business metrics they need to achieve a single view of the customer experience. Multiple instances of customer relationship management (CRM) applications, disparate enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems and poor customer data integration (CDI) can leave group members with a fragmented view of the customer. 

The goal of customer analytics is to create a single, accurate view of the customer for the group to work with and make decisions about how best to acquire and retain customers, identify high-value customers and proactively interact with them.  Failure to have enough accurate data can make any insight derived from analysis wildly inaccurate.
Customer analytics is a process by which data from customer behavior is used to help make key business decisions via market segmentation and predictive analytics. This information is used by businesses for direct marketing, site selection, and customer relationship management. Marketing provides services in order to satisfy customers. With that in mind, the productive system is considered from its beginning at the production level, to the end of the cycle at the consumer. Customer analytics plays a very important role in the prediction of customer behavior today.[1]

Contents

    1 Uses
    2 Predicting customer behaviour
    3 Data mining
    4 See also
    5 References
    6 Further readling
    7 External links

Uses

Retail

Although until recently over 90% of retailers had limited visibility on their customers[citation needed], with increasing investments in loyalty programs, customer tracking solutions and market research, this industry started increasing use of customer analytics in decisions ranging from product, promotion, price and distribution management.[citation needed] The most obvious use of customer analytics in retail today is the development of personalized communications and offers and/or different marketing programs by segment.[citation needed] Additional reasons set forth by Bain & Co. include: prioritizing product development efforts, designing distribution strategies and determining product pricing.[2] Demographic, lifestyle, preference, loyalty data, behavior, shopper value and predictive behavior data points are key to the success of customer analytics.[citation needed]

Finance

Banks, insurance companies and pension funds make use of customer analytics in understanding customer lifetime value, identifying below-zero customers which are estimated to be around 30% of customer base, increasing cross-sales, managing customer attrition as well as migrating customers to lower cost channels in a targeted manner.

Community

Municipalities utilize customer analytics in an effort to lure retailers to their cities. Using psychographic variables, communities can be segmented based on attributes like personality, values, interests, and lifestyle. Using this information, communities can approach retailers that match their community’s profile.

Customer relationship management

Analytical Customer Relationship Management, commonly abbreviated as CRM, enables measurement of and prediction from customer data to provide a 360° view of the client.
Predicting customer behaviour

Forecasting buying habits and lifestyle preferences is a process of data mining and analysis. This information consists of many aspects like credit card purchases, magazine subscriptions, loyalty card membership, surveys, and voter registration. Using these categories, profiles can be created for any organization’s most profitable customers. When many of these potential customers are aggregated in a single area it indicates a fertile location for the business to situate. Using a drive time analysis, it is also possible to predict how far a given customer will drive to a particular location. Combining these sources of information, a dollar value can be placed on each household within a trade area detailing the likelihood that household will be worth to a company. Through customer analytics, companies can make decisions with confidence because every decision is based on facts and objective Data.
Data mining

There are two types of categories of data mining. Predictive models use previous customer interactions to predict future events while segmentation techniques are used to place customers with similar behaviors and attributes into distinct groups. This grouping can help marketers to optimize their campaign management and targeting processes.
See also

    Buyer decision processes
    Business analytics
    Data warehouse
    Psychographics
    Mattersight Corporation

