The management of confidential, sensitive and/or personal data has ethical as well as legal implications. The core principle underpinning the University's Code of practice and principles for good ethical governance is that of avoidance of harm. This includes harm to the welfare and interests of human participants (whether participating actively or through observation/use of their data) and harm to the welfare and interests of the wider community. Two key considerations when managing your research data are:

    To ensure the security of confidential, sensitive and/or personal data, including access control. For more information see our Storing your data securely web page.
    To ensure that appropriate consent is in place for the use or reuse of human data.

Further detail can be found in the Code of practice and principles for good ethical governance.

    For further guidance on the ethics of research data management, speak to a member of your departmental/subject level ethics committee in the first instance.

All research undertaken in the University's name or on its behalf which falls within the University's framework of ethical principles, regardless of funding source, should undergo review by a University ethics sub-committee, and have been signed off by the sub-committee before the research commences, even where ethical scrutiny is also undertaken by an outside body.

The review process will include addressing the above considerations where they apply. Details of the University's procedures for conducting ethical review are set out in the Code.

Your funder and/or your professional body may also have requirements and/or guidance relating to the ethical management of research data, which you will need to take into account when addressing the above considerations.

Many research funders now require the researchers they fund to share and preserve their research data. Writing a Data Management Plan at the start of your research project will help you to consider these issues and how you might produce a version of your data that you can share.
University guidance on Data Protection, FOI and IPR

Click on the one of the options below to read the University's guidance on Data Protection, Freedom of Information or Intellectual Property Rights.
Data Protection

The Data Protection Act 1998 establishes key principles that govern the collection, use and handling of personal information and provides individuals with important rights.

    Data Protection information on data protection provided by University Records Manager.

    The Data Protection Act: University policy, procedures and guidelines summarises the implications of the Data Protection Act for the University, sets out the University's general policy on adherence to the Act (e.g. procuring, storing and the disposing of personal data), and offers specific guidance relating to research involving data from human participants.

    Records management guides a series of guides, with tips and examples, to help support the maintenance and good management of records. Data Security (PDF , 255kb) offers guidance on data acquisition, storage, data retention and the disposal of personal and sensitive data to meet ethical and legal requirements.

For help with data protection compliance, contact dataprotection@york.ac.uk

    Data Protection: Online a short online training session covering data protection, freedom of information and records management. For the University to meet its legal obligations all members of staff should complete this module.

For help with data protection compliance, contact dataprotection@york.ac.uk
Freedom of Information

The Freedom of Information Act and Environmental Information Regulations provide members of the public with a general right of access to the recorded information held by the University. The legislation works to promote openness across the public sector. So you could be required to release information about your research based on FOI and EIR requests.

    Freedom of Information information on FOI provided by the University Records Manager. It includes the University’s Freedom of Information Policy and guidance to staff on enquiry handling.

    Freedom of information and research guidance to staff relating to research data and publications. Included in this information is a link to JISC's FOI and research data: questions and answers, a useful FAQs on how researchers should respond if faced with FOI or EIR requests.

    Data Protection: Online a short online training session covering freedom of information, data protection and records management. In order for the University to meet its legal obligations all members of staff should complete this module.

For FOI advice, contact records-manager@york.ac.uk
Intellectual Property Rights

Intellectual Property Rights (IPR), for example copyright or patents, affect and may limit the way you and others can use the outputs of your research. It's therefore important to clarify copyright and intellectual property ownership of any data that you will create or use before your research begins.

If you agree or purchase licences to reuse third party data, be aware of any restrictions this places on what the data can be used for in the future. You should read carefully the terms and conditions associated with the use of third party data as its probable that copyright and/or licensing issues are associated.

Research funders may expect you to clarify IPR ownership in your Data Management Plan.

    Intellectual property guidance provided by the University Intellectual Property Manager.

    University policy on intellectual property outlines the ownership of IP (including copyright) for research materials and procedures for commercialisation.

    Copyright guidance that includes information on copyright exceptions and how to seek the permission of the copyright holder before reusing their work in your research. For further information and guidance about copyright compliance, contact lib-copyright-advice@york.ac.uk.

For advice on IPR, contact the Intellectual Property Manager sue.final@york.ac.uk
Recommended ethical and legal guidance from other organisations

    RCUK Guidance on best practice in the management of research data [PDf]
    RCUK recognises that there are legal, ethical and commercial constraints on release of research data. This document provides useful guidance on RCUK's expectations in relation to legal, ethical and commercial constraints.

    UK Data Archive Copyright
    Information on the implications of copyright ownership when creating, sharing and reusing data. The pages include example cases illustrating where issues may arise.

    UK Data Archive Consent and ethics
    Outlines strategies that you can utilise to allow you to share your personal and sensitive data, and meet your funder expectations, whilst protecting data integrity. Consult with your departmental/subject level ethics committee if you are unsure whether your data can be shared or published.

    Australian National Data Service Publishing and sharing sensitive data
    Step-by-step advice on what you need to know and do before publishing and sharing your sensitive data, in the Australian context.
    PrePARe Project  Is it yours? Dealing with copyright & other intellectual property rights
    A checklist to help you think about the steps to take to protect your own IPR and to respect the copyright in material created by someone else when you publish, share and deposit research material.

    DCC How to license research data
    A guide to help you decide how to apply a licence to your research data, and which licence would be most suitable.

    JISC Legal
    Offers guidance on legal issues that affect your data.

    Medical Research Council Tool kits
    The Data and tissues tool kit suggests practical ways to meet legal and ethical requirements relating to the use of personal information (and human tissue samples) in healthcare research.

    MRC Regulatory Support Centre Research data and confidentiality
    This e-learning module explores the concepts of confidentiality and data protection. It is aimed at all researchers working with data.

    University of Edinburgh, Research Data MANTRA Data protection, rights and access
    A training module from the MANTRA research data management online course. This module covers ethical obligations, data confidentiality and disclosure, data protection and anonymisation.

