 DATA MANAGEMENT SAMPLE PLAN 
2 
This study will only collect non-sensitive data. No pers
onal identifiers will be recorded or retained by the 
researchers  in  any  form.  There  are  no  copyright  or
  licensing  issues  associated  with  the  data  being  
submitted. 
Access, Sharing and Re-use of Data 
The  researchers  associated  with  this  study  are  no
t  aware  of  any  reasons  which  might  prohibit  the  
sharing  and  re-use  of  the  data  being  submitted.  Th
e  researchers  are  not  required  to  make  this  data  
available  publicly  but  have  elected  to  do  so.  The  da
ta  being  submitted  will  be  made  publicly  available  
through the Odum Institute for Research in Social Sc
ience located at UNC-CH by January 1, 2013. There 
will  be  no  additional  restrictions  or  permissions  required  for  accessing  the  data.  Findings  will  be  
published by the researchers based on this data; the 
estimated date of publication is June 1, 2012. There 
is  an  agreement  regarding  the  right  of  the  original  
data  collector,  creator  or  
principal  investigator  for  
first  use  of  the  data.  The  specified  embargo  period  associated  with  the  data  being  submitted  extends  
from  the  projected  conclusion  date  for  initial  
research  (December  31,  2011)  until  six  months  after  
projected publication date for the fi
ndings (June 1, 2012). The embargo 
will be lifted by January 1, 2013. 
Data Standards and Capture 
The associated data types will be captured using Qual
trics survey software and analyzed using SPSS data 
analytics tools. The researchers are not aware of any 
issues regarding the effects or limitations of these 
formats regarding the data being submitted. 
Metadata 
General  metadata  related  to  the  survey  topic  wi
ll  be  created  for  the  data  being  submitted.  The  
associated  metadata  will  be  manually  created  in  
XML  file  format.  DDI  metadata  standards  will  be  
applied during the creation of the metadata.  
Security, Storage, Management and Back-Up of Data 
The Odum Institute’s experience with, and commitment 
to, secure data archiving is well established and 
is  in  keeping  with  established  
UNC  Information  Security  Policies
.  During  the  implementation  of  the  
survey,  associated  research  data  will  be  physicall
y  stored  on  a  password-protected  secure  server  
maintained  by  UNC-CH  using  standard  SPSS  file  form
ats.  No  data  will  reside  on  portable  or  laptop  
devices, and no other external media/format(s) will be used for data storage.  
Research  data  is  backed  up  on  a  daily  basis.  The  
researchers  are  currently  responsible  for  storage,  
maintenance  and  back-up  of  the  data.  The  specific  storage  volume  of  the  data  being  submitted  will  be  
not  more  than  1GB  maximum.  The  long-term  strategy
  for  the  maintenance,  curation  and  archiving  of  
the  data  will  be  implemented  when  the  data  and  associated  research  are  migrated  to  the  Odum  
Institute for archiving usin
g the Odum Institute DVN. 
Preservation, Review and Long-Term Management of Data 
ODUM INSTITUTE 
−
 DATA MANAGEMENT SAMPLE PLAN 
3 
Data  collected  during  this  study  will  be  archived  with
  the  Odum  Institute  at  UNC-CH.  The  data  will  be  
stored in a specific virtual archive and will be ma
de publicly available through 
the Odum Institute DVN. 
As  a  result  of  this  arrangement,  there  are  no  specif
ic  financial  considerations  of  which  the  researchers  
are  currently  aware  which  might  impact  the  long-term  management  of  the  data.  The  research  and  
archival staff of the Odum Institute will review this
 DMP upon accession of the data in order to ensure 
and demonstrate compliance. The DMP will again be re
viewed by Odum Institute research and archival 
staff prior to ingest and release into the Odum DVN
