Computational science refers to the use of computers, networks, storage devices, software, and algorithms to solve problems, do simulations, build things, or create new knowledge. The figure below shows how Computational Science can be viewed as the intersection of:

    Computing and networking hardware
    Algorithms, Numerical Analysis, and Mathematics
    Software, Programming, and Databases
    Discipline specific knowledge


It is an incredibly broad discipline. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) states (paraphrased here):

The term Computational Science presents a broader view, implying science (and engineering) that is "computational" as opposed to "experimental" or "theoretical" in nature. Computer Science, of course, deals with the science and engineering of computers.
Some areas of computational science require large computers to perform trillions of floating point operations (computational fluid dynamics, computational chemistry, computational meteorology, computational physics, etc.). Other areas of computational science build and utilize large databases and require terabytes of storage (bioinformatics, business, knowledge management, geographical information systems, etc.). And some areas will require networks of computers to accomplish their goals (web technologies, grid computing, collaborative software, systems of systems, online communities, etc.). Graphics and visualization are also important areas. The most exciting computational science problems might involve all of these: computing, data storage, and networking (e.g. artificial intelligence, computational steering, mobile robots, virtual reality, etc.). Software development and programming are also crucial parts of computational science (e.g. Java, C++, MPI, CORBA, OpenGL, mySQL, PHP, Perl, Linux, etc.).

logo



The Krell Institite states (in http://www.krellinst.org/AiS/textbook/unit1/compsci_n1.html):

"Computational science is a relatively new discipline, and there is currently no consensus on a precise definition of what computational science actually is. In broad terms, computational science involves using computers to study scientific problems and complements the areas of theory and experimentation in traditional scientific investigation. Computational science seeks to gain understanding of science principally through the use and analysis of mathematical models on high performance computers."

"Computational science has emerged as a powerful and indispensable method of analyzing a variety of problems in research, product and process development, and manufacturing. Computational simulation is being accepted as a third methodology in scientific research, complementing the traditional approaches of theory and experiment. Computer simulations provide both qualitative and quantitative insights into many phenomena that are too complex to be dealt with by analytical methods or too expensive or dangerous to study by experiments. Many experiments and investigations that have traditionally been performed in a laboratory, a wind tunnel, or the field are being augmented or replaced by computer simulations. Some studies, such as nuclear repository integrity and global climate change, involve time scales that preclude the use of realistic physical experiments. The availability of high performance computers, graphic workstations, and high speed networks, coupled with major advances in algorithms and software, has brought about a revolution in the way scientific and engineering investigations are carried out."

"Computational science should not be confused with computer science. Computational science focuses on a scientific or engineering problem and draws from computer science and mathematics to gain an improved understanding of the problem. Computer science focuses on the computer itself. Even though the areas are quite distinct, many of the topics typically considered to be in the domain of computer science are of much value in computational science. "

"Traditional or established areas of computational science include:
Computational fluid dynamics

Atmospheric science Seismology
Structural analysis
Chemistry
Magnetohydrodynamics
Reservoir modeling
Global ocean/climate modeling
Environmental studies; and,
Nuclear engineering


Some nontraditional and emerging areas of computational science include:
Biology
Economics
Materials research
Medical imaging; and,
Animal science.


The list continues to grow. More recently, computational science has begun to make inroads into other areas, such as music and the visual arts."
