And the end result in business is directly linked to the quality of the decisions made at each point along the way.

So not surprisingly, decision-making is a universally important competence in business. Some decisions clearly have a greater impact on the business than others, but the underlying skill is the same: The difference is in the scope and depth of the process you go through to reach your decision.

One reason why decision-making can be so problematic is that the most critical decisions tend to have to be made in the least amount of time. You feel pressured and anxious. The time pressure means taking shortcuts, jumping to conclusions, or relying heavily on instinct to guide your way.

In your organization, you've probably heard of someone who made it all the way to VP by relying on his gut to make decisions. At the other extreme is the guy who simply can't make a decision because he analyses the situation to death. The bottom line is, you have to make decisions, and you have to make good decisions. Poor decisions are bad for business. Worse still, one poor decision can lead to others, and so the impact can be compounded and lead to more and more problems down the line.

Thankfully, decision-making is a skill set that can be learned and improved on. Somewhere between instinct and over-analysis is a logical and practical approach to decision-making that doesn't require endless investigation, but helps you weigh up the options and impacts.

One such approach is called the Kepner-Tregoe Matrix. It provides an efficient, systematic framework for gathering, organizing and evaluating decision making information. The approach was developed by Charles H. Kepner and Benjamin B. Tregoe in the 1960's and they first wrote about it in the business classic, The Rational Manager (1965). The approach is well-respected and used by many of the world's top organizations including NASA and General Motors.
The Kepner-Tregoe Approach

The Kepner-Tregoe approach is based on the premise that the end goal of any decision is to make the "best possible" choice. This is a critical distinction: The goal is not to make the perfect choice, or the choice that has no defects. So the decision maker must accept some risk. And an important feature of the Kepner-Tregoe Matrix is to help evaluate and mitigate the risks of your decision.

The Kepner-Tregoe Matrix approach guides you through the process of setting objectives, exploring and prioritizing alternatives, exploring the strengths and weaknesses of the top alternatives, and of choosing the final "best" alternative. It then prompts you to generate ways to control the potential problems that will crop up as a consequence of your decision.

This type of detailed problem and risk analysis helps you to make an unbiased decision. By skipping this analysis and relying on gut instinct, your evaluation will be influenced by your preconceived beliefs and prior experience – it's simply human nature. The structure of the Kepner-Tregoe approach limits these conscious and unconscious biases as much as possible.

The Kepner-Tregoe Matrix comprises four basic steps:

    Situation Appraisal – identify concerns and outline the priorities.
    Problem Analysis – describe the exact problem or issue by identifying and evaluating the causes.
    Decision Analysis – identify and evaluate alternatives by performing a risk analysis for each and then make a final decision.
    Potential Problem Analysis – evaluate the final decision for risk and identify the contingencies and preventive actions necessary to minimize that risk.

Going through each stage of this process will help you come to the "best possible choice", given your knowledge and understanding of the issues that bear on the decision.
    Identify the decision to be made: After realizing that a decision must be made, you then go through an internal process of trying to clearly define the nature of the decision you must make.
    Gather relevant information: Most decisions require collecting pertinent information. Some information must be sought from within yourself through a process of self-assessment, while other information must be sought from outside books, people and a variety of other sources.
    Identify alternatives: Through the process of collecting information you will probably identify several possible paths of action, or alternatives. In this step of the decision-making process, you will list all possible and desirable alternatives.
    Weigh evidence: In this step, you draw on your information and emotions to imagine what it would be like if you carried out each of the alternatives to the end. You must evaluate whether the need identified in Step 1 would be helped or solved through the use of each alternative.
    Choose among alternatives: Once you have weighed all the evidence, you are ready to select the choice that seems to be best suited to you.
    Take action: You now take some positive action, which begins to implement the alternative you chose.
    Review decision and consequences: In the last step you experience the results of your decision and evaluate whether or not it has "solved" the need you identified in Step 1. If it has, you may stay with this decision for some period of time. If the decision has not resolved the identified need, you may repeat certain steps of the process in order to make a new decision.

Decision-making tools and techniques

While the basic principles might be the same, there are dozens of different techniques and tools that can be used when trying to make a decision. Among some of the more popular options, which often use graphs, models or charts, are:

    Decision matrix: A decision matrix is used to evaluate all the options of a decision. When using the matrix, create a table with all of the options in the first column and all of the factors that affect the decision in the first row. Users then score each option and weigh which factors are of more importance.  A final score is then tallied to reveal which option is the best.
    T-Chart: This chart is used when weighing the plusses and minuses of the options. It ensures that all the positives and negatives are taken into consideration when making a decision.
    Decision tree: This is a graph or model that involves contemplating each option and the outcomes of each. Statistical analysis is also conducted with this technique.
    Multivoting: This is used when multiple people are involved in making a decision. It helps whittle down a large list options to a smaller one to the eventual final decision.
    Pareto analysis: This is a technique used when a large number of decisions need to be made. This helps in prioritizing which ones should be made first by determining which decisions will have the greatest overall impact.
    Cost-benefit: This technique is used when weighing the financial ramifications of each possible alternative as a way to come to a final decision that makes the most sense from an economic perspective.
    Conjoint analysis: This is a method used by business leaders to determine consumer preferences when making decisions.

Decision-making mistakes

When making decisions, especially in the workplace, it can be easy to fall into several traps that lead to the wrong decision. The U.S. Small Business Administration warns business leaders to be careful of numerous mistakes that are often made during the decision-making process. Several of the mistakes revolve around turning to outside help when making a decision. The SBA advises leaders to not rely too much on expert information when evaluating their choices. 

"Oftentimes, people have a tendency to place too much emphasis on what experts say," the SBA writes on its website. "Remember, experts are only human and have their own set of biases and prejudices just like the rest of us."

Rather than trusting their own gut feelings when trying to make a decision, the SBA said business leaders often both over and underestimate the value of the information they receive from others. Instead of letting others sway your belief one way or another, they said leaders should keep the opinions of others in perspective.

In the end, they said not listening to your own feelings or gut reactions can be one of the biggest mistakes that can be made during the decision-making process.

"Our society teaches us to ignore these feelings, but by tuning into your intuition, you will find that you will make much better decisions in the long run," the SBA writes.

Among some of the other common mistakes that leaders often make, according to Jeff Miller, the director of corporate training and development for human resources and business performance solutions provider Insperity, are not taking enough time to make a decision by rushing to a conclusion.

In addition, Miller said procrastinating over actually making a decision is also a huge misstep.

"As well as being uncomfortable or time-consuming, avoiding decisions can also hurt your reputation," Miller wrote on the Insperity website. "Your staff may perceive it as a lack of care for their well-being, which can create a lack of respect."




Decision analysis (DA) is the discipline comprising the philosophy, theory, methodology, and professional practice necessary to address important decisions in a formal manner. Decision analysis includes many procedures, methods, and tools for identifying, clearly representing, and formally assessing important aspects of a decision, for prescribing a recommended course of action by applying the maximum expected utility action axiom to a well-formed representation of the decision, and for translating the formal representation of a decision and its corresponding recommendation into insight for the decision maker and other stakeholders.

Contents

    1 History and methodology
    2 Controversy
    3 See also
    4 References
    5 Further reading
    6 External links

History and methodology

Graphical representation of decision analysis problems commonly use influence diagrams and decision trees. Both of these tools represent the alternatives available to the decision maker, the uncertainty they face, and evaluation measures representing how well they achieve their objectives in the final outcome. Uncertainties are represented through probabilities. The decision maker's attitude to risk is represented by utility functions and their attitude to trade-offs between conflicting objectives can be made using multi-attribute value functions or multi-attribute utility functions (if there is risk involved). In some cases, utility functions can be replaced by the probability of achieving uncertain aspiration levels. Decision analysis advocates choosing that decision whose consequences have the maximum expected utility (or which maximize the probability of achieving the uncertain aspiration level). Such decision analytic methods are used in a wide variety of fields, including business (planning, marketing, and negotiation), environmental remediation, health care research and management, energy exploration, litigation and dispute resolution, etc.

Decision analysis is used by major corporations to make multibillion-dollar capital investments. In 2010, Chevron won the Decision Analysis Society Practice Award 
for its use of decision analysis in all major decisions. In a video 
detailing Chevron's use of decision analysis, Chevron Vice Chairman George Kirkland notes that "decision analysis is a part of how Chevron does business for a simple, but powerful, reason: it works."
Controversy

Decision analysis is designed to be a prescriptive approach to decision making, especially decision-making under uncertainties. The distinction between prescriptive and descriptive perspectives of decision-making is important, because the first answers the question "how should I make my decisions" (even though people don't act this way necessarily), while the second targets to explain how people make decisions (even though in many cases the way they make the decisions are not perfect).

Decision researchers studying how individuals research decisions have found that decision analysis is rarely used.[1] High-stakes decisions, made under time pressure, are not well described by decision analysis.[2] Some decision analysts, in turn,[3] argue that their approach is prescriptive, providing a prescription of what actions to take based on sound logic, rather than a descriptive approach, describing the flaws in the way people do make decisions. Critics cite the phenomenon of paralysis by analysis as one possible consequence of over-reliance on decision analysis in organizations.

Studies have demonstrated the utility of decision analysis in creating decision-making algorithms that are superior to "unaided intuition".[4][5]

The term "decision analytic" has often been reserved for decisions that do not appear to lend themselves to mathematical optimization methods. Methods like applied information economics, however, attempt to apply more rigorous quantitative methods even to these types of decisions.
See also

    Choice
    Decision analysis cycle
    Decision engineering
    Decision making software
    Decision model
    Decision quality
    Decision support
    Decision theory
    Influence diagram
    Management science
    Micromort
    Multiple-criteria decision analysis (MCDA)
    Optimal decision
    Stochastic dominance



Decision-making software (DMS) is used to help individuals and organizations with their decision-making processes, typically resulting in ranking, sorting or choosing from among alternatives.

An early example of DMS was described in 1973.[1][2] Prior to the advent of the World Wide Web, most DMS was spreadsheet-based,[2] with the first web-based DMS appearing in the mid-1990s.[3] Nowadays, at least 20 DMS products (mostly web-based) are available.[4][5][6]

Though DMS exists for the various stages of structuring and solving decision problems – from brain-storming problems to representing decision-maker preferences and reaching decisions – most DMS focuses on choosing from among a group of alternatives characterized on multiple criteria or attributes.[4]

Contents

    1 Purpose
    2 Methods and features
        2.1 Decision-making methods
        2.2 Software features
        2.3 Comparison of decision-making software
    3 See also
    4 References

Purpose

DMS is a tool that is intended to support the analysis involved in decision-making processes, not to replace it.[5] "DMS should be used to support the process, not as the driving or dominating force."[7] DMS frees users "from the technical implementation details [of the decision-making method employed – discussed in the next section], allowing them to focus on the fundamental value judgements".[7] Nonetheless, DMS should not be employed blindly. "Before using a software, it is necessary to have a sound knowledge of the adopted methodology and of the decision problem at hand."[8]
Methods and features
Decision-making methods

Most decision-making processes supported by DMS are based on decision analysis, most commonly multi-criteria decision making (MCDM). MCDM involves evaluating and combining alternatives' characteristics on two or more criteria or attributes in order to rank, sort or choose from among the alternatives.[9]

DMS employs a variety of MCDM methods;[7] popular examples include (and see the table below):

    Aggregated Indices Randomization Method (AIRM)
    Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP)
    Analytic network process (ANP, an extension of AHP)
    Elimination and Choice Expressing Reality (ELECTRE)
    Measuring Attractiveness by a Categorical Based Evaluation Technique (MACBETH) [10]
    Multi-attribute global inference of quality (MAGIQ)
    Potentially All Pairwise RanKings of all possible Alternatives (PAPRIKA)
    Preference Ranking Organization Method for Enrichment Evaluation (PROMETHEE)
    The Evidential reasoning approach for MCDM under hybrid uncertainty

Naturally, there are significant differences between these methods[7][9] and, accordingly, the DMS implementing them. Such differences include:

        The extent to which the decision problem is broken into a hierarchy of sub-problems;
        Whether or not pairwise comparisons of alternatives and/or criteria are used to elicit decision-makers' preferences;
        The use of interval scale or ratio scale measurements of decision-makers' preferences;
        The number of criteria included;
        The number of alternatives evaluated, ranging from a few (finite) to infinite;
        The extent to which numerical scores are used to value and/or rank alternatives;
        The extent to which incomplete rankings (relative to complete rankings) of alternatives are produced;
        The extent to which uncertainty is modeled and analyzed.

Software features

In addition to helping decision-makers to rank, sort or choose from among alternatives, DMS products often include a variety of additional features and tools;[3][4] examples include:

    Time analysis and time optimization
    Sensitivity analysis and fuzzy logic calculations
    Risk aversion measurement
    Group evaluation (teamwork)
    Graphic or visual presentation tools

Comparison of decision-making software

Notable software includes the following.
Software 	Supported MCDA Methods 	Pairwise Comparison 	Sensitivity Analysis 	Group Evaluation 	Web-based
1000Minds 	PAPRIKA 	Yes 	Yes 	Yes 	Yes 	[5]
Ahoona 	WSM, Utility 	No 	No 	Yes 	Yes 	[11]
Altova MetaTeam 	WSM 	No 	No 	Yes 	Yes 	[citation needed]
Analytica 		No 	Yes 	No 	Yes 	[5]
Criterium DecisionPlus 	AHP, SMART 	Yes 	Yes 	No 	No 	[citation needed]
D-Sight 	PROMETHEE, UTILITY 	Yes 	Yes 	Yes 	Yes 	[5]
DecideIT 	MAUT 	Yes 	Yes 	Yes 	Yes 	[5]
Decision Lens 	AHP, ANP 	Yes 	Yes 	Yes 	Yes 	[citation needed]
Super Decisions 	AHP, Analytic Network Process 	Yes 	Yes 	No 	Yes 	[12][12]
Expert Choice 	AHP 	Yes 	Yes 	Yes 	Yes 	[5]
Hiview3 		No 	Yes 	Yes 	No 	[5]
Intelligent Decision System 	Evidential Reasoning Approach, Bayesian Inference, Dempster–Shafer theory, Utility 	Yes 	Yes 	Yes 	Available on request 	[5]
Logical Decisions 	AHP 	Yes 	Yes 	Yes 	No 	[5]
Loomio 	 ? 	 ? 	 ? 	 ? 	Yes 	
M-MACBETH 	MACBETH 	Yes 	Yes 	Yes 	No 	[10][13]
PriEsT 	AHP 	Yes 	Yes 	No 	No 	[14]
WISED 	MACBETH 	Yes 	Yes 	Yes 	Yes 	[10][15]
See also

    iconSoftware portal 

    Decision engineering
    Decision support system
    Project management software
    List of concept- and mind-mapping software
    Strategic planning software



Decision engineering (more recently called Decision Intelligence by The Decision Intelligence Institute International[1] and companies like Quantellia[2]) is a framework that unifies a number of best practices for organizational decision making. It is based on the recognition that, in many organizations, decision making could be improved if a more structured approach were used. Decision engineering seeks to overcome a decision making "complexity ceiling", which is characterized by a mismatch between the sophistication of organizational decision making practices and the complexity of situations in which those decisions must be made. As such, it seeks to solve some of the issues identified around complexity theory and organizations. In this sense, decision engineering represents a practical application of the field of complex systems, which helps organizations to navigate the complex systems in which they find themselves. Decision engineering can also be thought of as a framework that brings advanced analytics techniques to the desktop of the non-expert decision maker, as well as incorporating, and then extending, inductive reasoning and machine learning techniques to overcome the problems articulated in Black swan theory.[citation needed]

Decision engineering proponents[3] believe that many organizations continue to make poor decisions.[4][5] In response, decision engineering seeks to unify a number of decision making best practices, described in more detail below.

Decision engineering builds on the insight that it is possible to design the decision itself, using principles previously used for designing more tangible objects like bridges and buildings.[6]

The use of a visual design language representing decisions is an important element of decision engineering, since it provides an intuitive common language readily understood by all decision participants. A visual metaphor[7] improves the ability to reason about complex systems[8] as well as to enhance collaboration.

In addition to visual decision design, there are other two aspects of engineering disciplines that aid mass adoption. These are: 1) the creation of a shared language of design elements and 2) the use of a common methodology or process, as illustrated in the diagram above.

Contents

    1 Motivation
    2 Transferring engineering principles
    3 Bringing numerical methods to the desktop
    4 Origins
    5 Visual decision design
        5.1 Explicit representation of intangibles
    6 See also
    7 Notes
    8 Bibliography
    9 External links
    10 References

Motivation

The need for a unified methodology of decision making is driven by a number of factors that organizations face as they make difficult decisions in a complex internal and external environment.

Recognition of the broad-based inability of current methods to solve decision making issues in practice comes from several sources, including government sources and industries such as telecommunications, media, the automotive industry, and pharmaceuticals.

Examples:

    The outcomes of decisions are becoming more complex, going well beyond next quarter's revenues or other tangible outcomes to multiple goals that must be satisfied together, some of which are often intangible:

    The car is becoming an expression of identity, values, and personal control in ways that move far beyond traditional segmentation and branding. For example, fuel efficiency will be only one consideration for a socially responsible vehicle (SRV). What percent of the parts are recyclable? What is the vehicle's total carbon footprint? Are there child labor inputs? Toxic paints, glues, or plastics? How transparent is the supply chain? Is the seller accountable for recycling? What methods are used? Are fair labor practices employed?
    — Shoshana Zuboff, The GM Solution: Life Boats, Not Life Support. 
    Business Week, November 18, 2008

    Global increase in complexity:

    We live in a dynamic world in which the pace, scope, and complexity of change are increasing. The continued march of

    globalization, the growing number of independent actors, and advancing technology have increased global connectivity, interdependence and complexity, creating greater uncertainties, systemic risk and a less predictable future. These changes
    have led to reduced warning times and compressed decision cycles.
    — Director of National Intelligence, Vision 2015: A Globally Networked and Integrated Intelligence Enterprise 
    Also see this Vision 2015 summary

Transferring engineering principles

Unlike other decision making tools and methodologies, decision engineering seeks to bring to bear a number of engineering practices to the process of creating a decision. These include requirements analysis, specification, scenario planning, quality assurance, security, and the use of design principles as described above. During the decision execution phase, outputs produced during the design phase can be used in a number of ways; monitoring approaches like business dashboards and assumption based planning are used to track the outcome of a decision and to trigger replanning as appropriate. One view of how some of these elements combine is shown in the diagram at the start of this article.

Decision engineering has the potential to improve the quality of decisions made, the ability to make them more quickly, the ability to align organizational resources more effectively around a change in decisions, and lowers the risks associated with decisions. Furthermore, a designed decision can be reused and modified as new information is obtained. [9]
Bringing numerical methods to the desktop

Although many elements of decision engineering, such as Sensitivity analysis and analytics are mature disciplines, they are not in wide use by decision makers.[10] Decision engineering seeks to create a visual language that serves to facilitate communication between them and quantitative experts, allowing broader utilization of these and other numerical and technical approaches.

In particular, dependency links in a decision model represent cause-and-effect (as in a causal loop diagram), data flow (as in a data flow diagram), or other relationships. As an example, one link might represent the connection between "mean time to repair a problem with telephone service" and "customer satisfaction", where a short repair time would presumably raise customer satisfaction. The functional form of these dependencies can be determined by a number of approaches. Numerical approaches, which analyze data to determine these functions, include machine learning and analytics algorithms (including artificial neural networks), as well as more traditional regression analysis. Results from operations research and many other quantitative approaches have a similar role to play.

When data is not available (or is too noisy, uncertain, or incomplete), these dependency links can take on the form of rules as might be found in an expert system or rule-based system, and so can be obtained through knowledge engineering.

In this way, a decision model represents a mechanism for combining multiple relationships, as well as symbolic and subsymbolic reasoning, into a complete solution to determining the outcome of a practical decision.
Origins
	This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (January 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

It is interesting to note that, despite decades of development of decision support system and methodologies (like decision analysis), these are still less popular than spreadsheets as primary tools for decision making. Decision engineering seeks to bridge this gap, creating a critical mass of users of a common methodology and language for the core entities included in a decision, such as assumptions, external values, facts, data, and conclusions. If a pattern from previous industries holds, such a methodology will also facilitate technology adoption, by clarifying common maturity models and road maps that can be shared from one organization to another.

The decision engineering approach is multidisciplinary, unifying findings on cognitive bias and decision making, situational awareness, critical and creative thinking, collaboration and organizational design, with engineering technologies.

Decision engineering is considered an improvement upon current organizational decision making practices, which include the use of spreadsheets (difficult to QA, hard to collaborate and discuss), text (sequential in nature, so is not a good fit for how information flows through a decision structure), and verbal argument. The movement from these largely informal structures to one in which a decision is documented in a well understood, visual language, echoes the creation of common blueprint methodologies in construction, with promise of similar benefits.

Decision engineering is both a very new and also a very old discipline. Many of its elements—such as the language of assessing assumptions, using logic to support an argument, the necessity of critical thinking to evaluate a decision, and understanding the impacts of bias—are ancient. Yet the realization that these elements can form a coherent whole that provides significant benefits to organizations by focusing on a common methodology is relatively new.
Visual decision design

Because it makes visible the otherwise invisible reasoning structures used in complex decisions, the design aspect of decision engineering draws from other conceptual representation technologies like mind mapping, conceptual graphs, and semantic networks.

The basic idea is that a visual metaphor enhances intuitive thinking, inductive reasoning, and pattern recognition—important cognitive skills usually less accessible in a verbal or text discussion. A business decision map can be seen as one approach to a formal decision language to support decision engineering. See, e.g., Waring, 2010.[11]
Explicit representation of intangibles

Decision engineering recognizes that many aspects of decision making are based on intangible elements, including opportunity costs, employee morale, intellectual capital, brand recognition and other forms of business value that are not captured in traditional quantitative or financial models. Value network analysis—most notably Value network maps 
—are therefore relevant here.
See also

    Amos Tversky
    Daniel Kahneman
    The Black Swan (Taleb book)



A decision support system (DSS) is a computer-based information system that supports business or organizational decision-making activities. DSSs serve the management, operations, and planning levels of an organization (usually mid and higher management) and help people make decisions about problems that may be rapidly changing and not easily specified in advance—i.e. Unstructured and Semi-Structured decision problems. Decision support systems can be either fully computerized, human-powered or a combination of both.

While academics have perceived DSS as a tool to support decision making process, DSS users see DSS as a tool to facilitate organizational processes.[1] Some authors have extended the definition of DSS to include any system that might support decision making.[2] Sprague (1980) defines DSS by its characteristics:

    DSS tends to be aimed at the less well structured, underspecified problem that upper level managers typically face;
    DSS attempts to combine the use of models or analytic techniques with traditional data access and retrieval functions;
    DSS specifically focuses on features which make them easy to use by noncomputer people in an interactive mode; and
    DSS emphasizes flexibility and adaptability to accommodate changes in the environment and the decision making approach of the user.

DSSs include knowledge-based systems. A properly designed DSS is an interactive software-based system intended to help decision makers compile useful information from a combination of raw data, documents, and personal knowledge, or business models to identify and solve problems and make decisions.

Typical information that a decision support application might gather and present includes:

    inventories of information assets (including legacy and relational data sources, cubes, data warehouses, and data marts),
    comparative sales figures between one period and the next,
    projected revenue figures based on product sales assumptions.

DSSs are often contrasted with more automated decision-making systems known as Decision Management Systems.[3]

Contents

    1 History
    2 Taxonomies
    3 Components
    4 Development frameworks
    5 Classification
    6 Applications
    7 See also
    8 References
    9 Further reading

History

The concept of decision support has evolved from two main areas of research: The theoretical studies of organizational decision making done at the Carnegie Institute of Technology during the late 1950s and early 1960s, and the technical work on Technology in the 1960s.[4] DSS became an area of research of its own in the middle of the 1970s, before gaining in intensity during the 1980s. In the middle and late 1980s, executive information systems (EIS), group decision support systems (GDSS), and organizational decision support systems (ODSS) evolved from the single user and model-oriented DSS.

According to Sol (1987)[5] the definition and scope of DSS has been migrating over the years. In the 1970s DSS was described as "a computer-based system to aid decision making". In the late 1970s the DSS movement started focusing on "interactive computer-based systems which help decision-makers utilize data bases and models to solve ill-structured problems". In the 1980s DSS should provide systems "using suitable and available technology to improve effectiveness of managerial and professional activities", and towards the end of 1980s DSS faced a new challenge towards the design of intelligent workstations.[5]

In 1987, Texas Instruments completed development of the Gate Assignment Display System (GADS) for United Airlines. This decision support system is credited with significantly reducing travel delays by aiding the management of ground operations at various airports, beginning with O'Hare International Airport in Chicago and Stapleton Airport in Denver Colorado.[6] Beginning in about 1990, data warehousing and on-line analytical processing (OLAP) began broadening the realm of DSS. As the turn of the millennium approached, new Web-based analytical applications were introduced.

The advent of more and better reporting technologies has seen DSS start to emerge as a critical component of management design. Examples of this can be seen in the intense amount of discussion of DSS in the education environment.

DSS also have a weak connection to the user interface paradigm of hypertext. Both the University of Vermont PROMIS system (for medical decision making) and the Carnegie Mellon ZOG/KMS system (for military and business decision making) were decision support systems which also were major breakthroughs in user interface research. Furthermore, although hypertext researchers have generally been concerned with information overload, certain researchers, notably Douglas Engelbart, have been focused on decision makers in particular.
Taxonomies

Using the relationship with the user as the criterion, Haettenschwiler[7] differentiates passive, active, and cooperative DSS. A passive DSS is a system that aids the process of decision making, but that cannot bring out explicit decision suggestions or solutions. An active DSS can bring out such decision suggestions or solutions. A cooperative DSS allows the decision maker (or its advisor) to modify, complete, or refine the decision suggestions provided by the system, before sending them back to the system for validation. The system again improves, completes, and refines the suggestions of the decision maker and sends them back to them for validation. The whole process then starts again, until a consolidated solution is generated.

Another taxonomy for DSS has been created by Daniel Power. Using the mode of assistance as the criterion, Power differentiates communication-driven DSS, data-driven DSS, document-driven DSS, knowledge-driven DSS, and model-driven DSS.[8]

    A communication-driven DSS supports more than one person working on a shared task; examples include integrated tools like Google Docs or Groove[9]
    A data-driven DSS or data-oriented DSS emphasizes access to and manipulation of a time series of internal company data and, sometimes, external data.
    A document-driven DSS manages, retrieves, and manipulates unstructured information in a variety of electronic formats.
    A knowledge-driven DSS provides specialized problem-solving expertise stored as facts, rules, procedures, or in similar structures.[8]
    A model-driven DSS emphasizes access to and manipulation of a statistical, financial, optimization, or simulation model. Model-driven DSS use data and parameters provided by users to assist decision makers in analyzing a situation; they are not necessarily data-intensive. Dicodess is an example of an open source model-driven DSS generator.[10]

Using scope as the criterion, Power[11] differentiates enterprise-wide DSS and desktop DSS. An enterprise-wide DSS is linked to large data warehouses and serves many managers in the company. A desktop, single-user DSS is a small system that runs on an individual manager's PC.
Components
Design of a drought mitigation decision support system

Three fundamental components of a DSS architecture are:[7][8][12][13][14]

    the database (or knowledge base),
    the model (i.e., the decision context and user criteria)
    the user interface.

The users themselves are also important components of the architecture.[7][14]
Development frameworks

DSS systems are not entirely different from other systems and require a structured approach. Such a framework includes people, technology, and the development approach.[12]

The Early Framework of Decision Support System consists of four phases:

Intelligence Searching for conditions that call for decision.

Design Developing and analyzing possible alternative actions of solution.

Choice Selecting a course of action among those.

Implementation Adopting the selected course of action in decision situation.

DSS technology levels (of hardware and software) may include:

    The actual application that will be used by the user. This is the part of the application that allows the decision maker to make decisions in a particular problem area. The user can act upon that particular problem.
    Generator contains Hardware/software environment that allows people to easily develop specific DSS applications. This level makes use of case tools or systems such as Crystal, Analytica and iThink.
    Tools include lower level hardware/software. DSS generators including special languages, function libraries and linking modules

An iterative developmental approach allows for the DSS to be changed and redesigned at various intervals. Once the system is designed, it will need to be tested and revised where necessary for the desired outcome.
Classification

There are several ways to classify DSS applications. Not every DSS fits neatly into one of the categories, but may be a mix of two or more architectures.

Holsapple and Whinston[15] classify DSS into the following six frameworks: text-oriented DSS, database-oriented DSS, spreadsheet-oriented DSS, solver-oriented DSS, rule-oriented DSS, and compound DSS.

A compound DSS is the most popular classification for a DSS. It is a hybrid system that includes two or more of the five basic structures described by Holsapple and Whinston.[15]

The support given by DSS can be separated into three distinct, interrelated categories:[16] Personal Support, Group Support, and Organizational Support.

DSS components may be classified as:

    Inputs: Factors, numbers, and characteristics to analyze
    User Knowledge and Expertise: Inputs requiring manual analysis by the user
    Outputs: Transformed data from which DSS "decisions" are generated
    Decisions: Results generated by the DSS based on user criteria

DSSs which perform selected cognitive decision-making functions and are based on artificial intelligence or intelligent agents technologies are called Intelligent Decision Support Systems (IDSS)[17]

The nascent field of Decision engineering treats the decision itself as an engineered object, and applies engineering principles such as Design and Quality assurance to an explicit representation of the elements that make up a decision.
Applications

As mentioned above, there are theoretical possibilities of building such systems in any knowledge domain.

One is the clinical decision support system for medical diagnosis. There are four stages in the evolution of clinical decision support system (CDSS). The primitive version is standalone which does not support integration. The second generation of CDSS supports integration with other medical systems. The third generation is standard-based while the fourth is service model-based.[18]

Other examples include a bank loan officer verifying the credit of a loan applicant or an engineering firm that has bids on several projects and wants to know if they can be competitive with their costs.

DSS is extensively used in business and management. Executive dashboard and other business performance software allow faster decision making, identification of negative trends, and better allocation of business resources. Due to DSS all the information from any organization is represented in the form of charts, graphs i.e. in a summarized way, which helps the management to take strategic decision. For example, one of the DSS applications is the management and development of complex anti-terrorism systems.[19]

A growing area of DSS application, concepts, principles, and techniques is in agricultural production, marketing for sustainable development. For example, the DSSAT4 package,[20][21] developed through financial support of USAID during the 80s and 90s, has allowed rapid assessment of several agricultural production systems around the world to facilitate decision-making at the farm and policy levels. There are, however, many constraints to the successful adoption on DSS in agriculture.[22]

DSS are also prevalent in forest management where the long planning horizon and the spatial dimension of planning problems demands specific requirements. All aspects of Forest management, from log transportation, harvest scheduling to sustainability and ecosystem protection have been addressed by modern DSSs. In this context the consideration of single or multiple management objectives related to the provision of goods and services that traded or non-traded and often subject to resource constraints and decision problems. The Community of Practice of Forest Management Decision Support Systems provides a large repository on knowledge about the construction and use of forest Decision Support Systems.[23]

A specific example concerns the Canadian National Railway system, which tests its equipment on a regular basis using a decision support system. A problem faced by any railroad is worn-out or defective rails, which can result in hundreds of derailments per year. Under a DSS, CN managed to decrease the incidence of derailments at the same time other companies were experiencing an increase.
See also
Recommender systems
Concepts

    Collective intelligence Relevance Star ratings Long tail 

Methods and challenges

    Cold start Collaborative filtering Dimensionality reduction Implicit data collection Item-item collaborative filtering Preference elicitation Similarity search 

Implementations

    Collaborative search engine Content discovery platform Decision support system Music Genome Project Product finder 

Research

    GroupLens Research MovieLens Netflix Prize 

    v t e 

	Wikimedia Commons has media related to Decision support systems.

    Clinical decision support system
    Spatial decision support system
    Land Allocation Decision Support System
    Decision engineering
    Decision-making software
    Decision theory
    Enterprise Decision Management
    Expert system
    Judge–advisor system
    Morphological analysis (problem-solving)
    Online deliberation
    Predictive analytics
    Self service software




Tableau Public: Tableau democratizes visualization in an elegantly simple and intuitive tool. It is exceptionally powerful in business because it communicates insights through data visualization. Although great alternatives exist, Tableau Public's million row limit provides a great playground for personal use and the free trial is more than long enough to get you hooked. In the analytics process, Tableau's visuals allow you to quickly investigate a hypothesis, sanity check your gut, and just go explore the data before embarking on a treacherous statistical journey.

OpenRefine: Formerly GoogleRefine, OpenRefine is a data cleaning software that allows you to get everything ready for analysis. What do I mean by that? Well, let's look at an example. Recently, I was cleaning up a database that included chemical names and noticed that rows had different spellings, capitalization, spaces, etc that made it very difficult for a computer to process. Fortunately, OpenRefine contains a number of clustering algorithms (groups together similar entries) and makes quick work of an otherwise messy problem.
**Tip- Increase Java Heap Space to run large files (Google the tip for exact instructions!)

KNIME: KNIME allows you to manipulate, analyze, and modeling data in an incredibly intuitive way through visual programming. Essentially, rather than writing blocks of code, you drop nodes onto a canvas and drag connection points between activities. More importantly, KNIME can be extended to run R, python, text mining, chemistry data, etc, which gives you the option to dabble in the more advanced code driven analysis.
**TIP- Use "File Reader" instead of CSV reader for CSV files. Strange quirk of the software.

RapidMiner: Much like KNIME, RapidMiner operates through visual programming and is capable of manipulating, analyzing and modeling data. Most recently, RapidMiner won KDnuggets software poll, demonstrating that data science does not need to be a counter-intuitive coding endeavor.

Google Fusion Tables: Meet Google Spreadsheets cooler, larger, and much nerdier cousin. Google Fusion tables is an incredible tool for data analysis, large data-set visualization, and mapping. Not surprisingly, Google's incredible mapping software plays a big role in pushing this tool onto the list. Take for instance this map, which I made to look at oil production platforms in the Gulf of Mexico. With just a quick upload, Google Fusion tables recognized the latitude and longitude data and got to work.

NodeXL: NodeXL is a visualization and analysis software of networks and relationships. Think of the giant friendship maps you see that represent linkedin or Facebook connections. NodeXL takes that a step further by providing exact calculations. If you're looking for something a little less advanced, check out the node graph on Google Fusion Tables, or for a little more visualization try out Gephi.

Import.io: Web scraping and pulling information off of websites used to be something reserved for the nerds. Now with Import.io, everyone can harvest data from websites and forums. Simply highlight what you want and in a matter of minutes Import.io walks you through and "learns" what you are looking for. From there, Import.io will dig, scrape, and pull data for you to analyze or export.

Google Search Operators: Google is an undeniably powerful resource and search operators just take it a step up. Operators essentially allow you to quickly filter Google results to get to the most useful and relevant information. For instance, say you're looking for a Data science report published this year from ABC Consulting. If we presume that the report will be in PDF we can search

    "Date Science Report" site:ABCConsulting.com Filetype:PDF


then underneath the search bar, use the "Search Tools" to limit the results to the past year. The operators can be even more useful for discovering new information or market research.

Solver: Solver is an optimization and linear programming tool in excel that allows you to set constraints (Don't spend more than this many dollars, be completed in that many days, etc). Although advanced optimization may be better suited for another program (such as R's optim package), Solver will make quick work of a wide range of problems.

WolframAlpha: Wolfram Alpha's search engine is one of the web's hidden gems and helps to power Apple's Siri. Beyond snarky remarks, Wolfram Alpha is the nerdy Google, provides detailed responses to technical searches and makes quick work of calculus homework. For business users, it presents information charts and graphs, and is excellent for high level pricing history, commodity information, and topic overviews.

