Key Concepts of the Scientific Method

Research Methodology

There are several important aspects to research methodology. This is a summary of the key concepts in scientific research and an attempt to erase some common misconceptions in science.

Steps of the scientific method are shaped like an hourglass - starting from general questions, narrowing down to focus on one specific aspect, and designing research where we can observe and analyze this aspect. At last, we conclude and generalize to the real world.
Formulating a Research Problem

Researchers organize their research by formulating and defining a research problem. This helps them focus the research process so that they can draw conclusions reflecting the real world in the best possible way.


Hypothesis

In research, a hypothesis is a suggested explanation of a phenomenon.

A null hypothesis is a hypothesis which a researcher tries to disprove. Normally, the null hypothesis represents the current view/explanation of an aspect of the world that the researcher wants to challenge.

Research methodology involves the researcher providing an alternative hypothesis, a research hypothesis, as an alternate way to explain the phenomenon.

The researcher tests the hypothesis to disprove the null hypothesis, not because he/she loves the research hypothesis, but because it would mean coming closer to finding an answer to a specific problem. The research hypothesis is often based on observations that evoke suspicion that the null hypothesis is not always correct.

In the Stanley Milgram Experiment, the null hypothesis was that the personality determined whether a person would hurt another person, while the research hypothesis was that the role, instructions and orders were much more important in determining whether people would hurt others.

Reasoning Cycle - Scientific Research
Variables

A variable is something that changes. It changes according to different factors. Some variables change easily, like the stock-exchange value, while other variables are almost constant, like the name of someone. Researchers are often seeking to measure variables.

The variable can be a number, a name, or anything where the value can change.

An example of a variable is temperature. The temperature varies according to other variable and factors. You can measure different temperature inside and outside. If it is a sunny day, chances are that the temperature will be higher than if it's cloudy. Another thing that can make the temperature change is whether something has been done to manipulate the temperature, like lighting a fire in the chimney.

In research, you typically define variables according to what you're measuring. The independent variable is the variable which the researcher would like to measure (the cause), while the dependent variable is the effect (or assumed effect), dependent on the independent variable. These variables are often stated in experimental research, in a hypothesis, e.g. "what is the effect of personality on helping behavior?"

In explorative research methodology, e.g. in some qualitative research, the independent and the dependent variables might not be identified beforehand. They might not be stated because the researcher does not have a clear idea yet on what is really going on.

Confounding variables are variables with a significant effect on the dependent variable that the researcher failed to control or eliminate - sometimes because the researcher is not aware of the effect of the confounding variable. The key is to identify possible confounding variables and somehow try to eliminate or control them.
Operationalization

Operationalization is to take a fuzzy concept (conceptual variables), such as 'helping behavior', and try to measure it by specific observations, e.g. how likely are people to help a stranger with problems.

Operationalization in Research

See also:

Conceptual Variables
Choosing the Research Method









