The Collins Paperback English Dictionary defines research as a “systematic investigation
to establish facts or collect information on a subject [14].” Vaishnavi and Kuechler [23] de-
fine research as “an activity that contributes to the understanding of a phenomenon.” By
these definitions, reading a first-year textbook would, hopefully, be research for a student.
Vaishnavi and Kuechler [23] go on to define a phenomenon as “a set of behaviours of some
entity(ies) that is found interesting by the researcher or by a group,” and understanding
as “knowledge that allows prediction of the behaviour of some aspect of the phenomenon.”
Academic research usually includes the idea that research adds something that is, in some
sense, new to the body of knowledge. The Office of Research and Innovation of Edith
Cowan University state that research “comprises creative work undertaken on a system-
atic basis in order to increase the stock of knowledge, including knowledge of man (sic),
culture and society, and the use of this stock of knowledge to devise new applications”
[17]. Other concepts that are associated with academic research include rigour, relevance
and a systematic approach. These are the kinds of things that journal reviewers look for
when trying to evaluate the quality of research.
Research is often divided into Basic and Applied research. Wikipedia [26] states that
“Basic research (also called fundamental or pure research) has as its primary objective
the advancement of knowledge and the theoretical understanding of the relations among
variables. It is exploratory and often driven by the researcher’s curiosity, interest, or hunch.
It is conducted without any practical end in mind, although it may have unexpected results
pointing to practical applications.” On the other hand, “Applied research is done to solve
specific, practical questions; its primary aim is not to gain knowledge for its own sake”
[26].
2.1
Why do we do research?
We do research to gain understanding. There are three main reasons why we might wish
to gain understanding. Firstly, because humans are more curious than cats. We would
do research to satisfy our curiosity, even if there were no practical application for the
understanding obtained. Secondly, as mentioned above, we do research in order to predict
the behaviour of an entity. An example of this would be seismic research that helps us
predict the occurrence of earthquakes. This has practical value in that it may allow us
to save lives, even though we cannot actually change the phenomenon. Thirdly, we do
research in order to change the behaviour of an entity. If we can predict an entity’s
behaviour, then we can also predict the effect on that behaviour if we change the entity
in some way. A good example of this is medical research, where we try to understand the
processes that cause a disease, so that we can prevent or cure it.
2.2
What do we do research on?
What kinds of phenomena do we do research on? Simon [20] divides the universe into
the natural and the artificial. Natural phenomena are those that occur ‘naturally’ in
the world, such as earthquakes, diseases and human behaviour. Artificial phenomena are
those that are created by man, for the purpose of satisfying man’s desires and achieving
his goals. Natural Science, or natural research, is concerned with understanding and
explaining natural phenomena. The Science of the Artificial [20], also known as Design
Science [23], is concerned with man-made, artificial phenomena.
2.3
Types of research
If one reads almost any book on how to do research, one will immediately be presented
with one of two ways to do research: Quantitative or Qualitative [16, 22]. However,
these are just methodologies, or prescriptions of how to do a part of research. Much of
the literature on research divides the types of research into Positivist and Interpretivist
viewpoints [23], although some authors disagree with this distinction [25]. The viewpoint
that is assumed by a particular researcher will affect all of their research, including the
methodologies they choose to use. These viewpoints, and their associated methodologies
will be discussed in more detail in §5.3.
2.4
How do we do research?
The Natural Science research process is composed of two activities, discovery and justi-
fication [9]. Discovery is the process of generating and proposing scientific claims. This
process is not well understood, and is inherently creative. Justification is the process of
testing the claims for validity. This is usually done by trying to prove the claim false, as
a single negative instance can do so, while innumerable positive instances cannot prove a
claim true [12]. Most research methodologies are prescriptions of how to gather data and
test claims; that is, they are prescriptions for the justification process and say nothing
about the discovery process.
2.5
How do we measure the quality of research?
The way in which the quality of a particular piece of research is measured depends on
the viewpoint that was adopted by the researchers conducting the research. In Natural
Science, the measure of claims and theories is their explanatory power. “Good” claims are
consistent with observed facts, and provide deep, encompassing and accurate predictions
of future observations [12].
3
What is operations research?
As with many other applied fields, there are two components to the discipline of OR.
There is the practice of the discipline, and there is research into the tools and methods of
the discipline. An analogy of this is the practice of medicine. The General Practitioner
or Specialist uses their knowledge, experience, tools and methods to diagnose and treat
patients. This is not research as they are not adding anything new to the body of medical
knowledge, although they may be providing new understanding to the patient. At the
same time there are the medical researchers who are doing research to increase their
understanding of the human body, and to use that understanding to develop better tools

and methods. Sometimes an individual will combine practice and research at the same
time, but they are still distinct actives. The difference between medicine and OR is that
medicine does not claim that the practice is also research in its name!
3.1
Research into operations research
Research into OR seeks to advance the practice of OR by various means, including, but
not limited to:
• Developing new, or improved, models of various systems.
• Developing new, or improved, algorithms for solving models.
• Developing new, or improved, methodologies.
• Developing new, or improved, tools such as software.
• Increasing the understanding of phenomena that affect the implementation or adop-
tion of OR models and methodologies.
Research that seeks to improve the practice of OR is generally applied research, but it
may be considered basic research if the practical application is only potential.
3.2
Practice of operations research
The Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS) de-
scribes OR as “the discipline of applying advanced analytical methods to help make better
decisions” [5]. They go on to expand this explanation as follows: “By using techniques
such as mathematical modelling to analyse complex situations, operations research gives
executives the power to make more effective decisions and build more productive systems”
[5].
When a practitioner applies a standard tool, such as linear programming, to solve a
problem from a class that is well understood, such as resource allocation, is he conducting
research? He is definitely providing new knowledge to the organisation for whom he is
solving the problem, but he is not adding anything new to the body of OR knowledge.
The author would argue that in the general sense of research as “systematic investigation
to establish facts or collect information on a subject [14]”, then this is research. However,
is it research in the sense of research as “creative work undertaken on a systematic basis
in order to increase the stock of knowledge” [17]?
A brief review of 20 abstracts from Volume 52 (2006) of Management Science revealed
that 50% of the published articles were Research into OR. A further 30% of articles
were not OR, but rather articles on Management. Only 20% of the articles reviewed
described projects that could be considered Practice of OR. However, all of these projects
approached the research from a Natural Science perspective. They were projects that
analysed a particular system in order to gain greater understanding. There appears to be
no attempt to build a model, or to ‘solve the problem’. This would seem to indicate that,
in the eyes of Management Science at least, the practice of OR is not seen as research.
