Systematic Study is a special way to learn school subjects. It is both easy and successful. If you study systematically your grades will improve and you might actually spend less time studying. We think that Systematic Study is smart study.
Q: Why should you use Systematic Study?

You should study systematically so you can make good choices about how and when you study. Most people just study without thinking about how they will learn. This may mean they read their textbooks or go over notes they took in class. These students often just close their books or notes when they have finished reading or reviewing.

    This is usually a poor way to study for several reasons:

        Reading or going over notes may not be the best way to study the material.
        No specific study activity was chosen. The students just did the first activity (reading or going over notes) that came to their minds.
        No attempt was made to see what they learned. These students did not test themselves.
        No plan to be successful was made.

With Systematic Study you will learn to choose and plan how you study. This will make learning easier and faster.
Q: Why do you need to learn to study?

We can't say that you do. But we do know that most students can learn to study better. Learning in school can be both difficult and time consuming. No one is born knowing how to do her or his best in school. We learn to study by listening to teachers and our parents and watching others. But, study is private; it happens in our minds. So we can't see exactly what others do. Most of us do what seems to be best and get into the habit of always studying one way.

Psychologists who study school learning have discovered that most students could learn more in less time if they changed how they study. This means using some new study actions and different attitudes during study. The purpose of STUDY SMART is to help you learn these study actions and attitudes.

You can think of learning to study better as similar to a carpenter with a tool box or a cook with cooking utensils. If they had just one tool - a screwdriver or a mixing spoon - their chances of success would be limited. However, if both had a complete set of tools or utensils, they would be more likely to succeed.

The same is true for studying. If students have only one way to study, they will have less chance to succeed than if they have many. In STUDY SMART you will learn many ways to study so, like the good carpenter, you will have a full box of study tools.




Q: What does it take to improve study?

Improving any skill or ability takes some work and desire. The same is true with study. While we can show you more effective study skills, no one can study and learn for you. As you know, a mixing bowl does a cook no good unless it is used. The same is true of these skills. You will have to use them in your study.

Sometimes using new study skills may not be easy and you may find some study ideas don't work right away. If this happens, do not give up. New ideas and actions take time to learn and get used to. All the ideas, skills, activities, and attitudes presented in STUDY SMART do work.

You must also be willing to change what you do when you study. This will take some effort and some time. But, you will get big rewards in the future when you learn more in less time and remember it better. So, practice the skills and ideas you learn in STUDY SMART. You will find study will be easier and more successful.
Q: What will you learn about study?

First, you will learn a Systematic Study approach. This will help you think about study differently. You will use this approach to choose study skills and study times and to make study plans. We call this study approach PAT. PAT stands for Prepare to study, Act to learn, and Test yourself.

Second, you will learn how to use your abilities more effectively. We think all students can do well in school if they use their abilities well. We will help you read faster and remember more, take good notes, listen better in class so you can hear test questions, improve your memory for facts and ideas, organize your time, and write better papers.

STUDY SMART has 24 lessons. You should do one or two lessons each week. After you work through a lesson, you should apply the ideas to your study for at least one week using the practice suggestions in each lesson.

In this way you will continue to add new ways to study but also master each new skill without feeling overwhelmed. If you have problems or questions, talk to your teacher or counselor. Most people do have questions, so don't feel like you are having special problems if all these ideas don't work right away.
Q: Where do these STUDY SMART ideas come from?

We have developed these ideas from talking to and working with successful students. These are people like you who make very good grades in school.

They may be different from you because they appear to learn very quickly and effortlessly. Some people believe these students do well because they are especially smart or have very high intelligence scores. But, this usually is not the reason students are successful in school.

The main difference between successful and less successful students is how and why they study. If you study like more successful students, you can be just as successful. STUDY SMART will show you how to study like the most successful students.
Q: How do you get started?

Begin by changing how you think about study. This will not be easy; but, it is a very important part of changing and improving your study.

First, we want you to learn PAT, the components of Systematic Study.

Prepare: This is an important part of study just as it is for athletes, travelers, and people in all occupations.

Athletes Prepare by stretching and warming up their muscles before they compete. They also make a game plan or strategy to use their skills. The same goes for travelers who choose a route to follow, buy tickets, make reservations, etc.

The best students Prepare when they study. They think about what they need to learn, they choose how to study, they select where they will study, and they decide how to determine if they were successful. Preparing is the first part of study; you will learn how to Prepare for class and home study.

Think about how you usually begin your study. What do you do? Open a book and begin reading? Grumble to yourself about having to study? Turn the radio to your favorite station? Find your favorite program on TV? Lay down on your bed?



Act: This part of study involves using the best skills to achieve the results you desire. When you are finished with STUDY SMART, you will have many skills or study tools to choose from. Developing many skills is important. Most good students use many skills because they choose the best skills for the study task which they have been assigned.

Now, think about how you choose to study. What do you do? The first thing you think of? The only thing you know? Or, do you consider several different ways to learn, memorize and understand?

Test: This is the part of study where you Test yourself to see if you learned successfully. It is interesting that good students rarely rely only on teachers to Test them. They Test themselves every time they finish studying.

Now, think about how you finish studying. What do you do? Close the book and heave a sigh of relief? Be grateful you don't have to read another chapter? Fall asleep? Listen to a favorite song? Turn on the TV? Call a friend on the phone?

Write a description of how you typically end your study.
Q: How do you begin to improve your study?

Being a better student requires change. As you work through STUDY SMART you will learn many ways to study differently. You may already have some ideas of how you can change your study to be better. The best place to begin is to look carefully at what you are doing now. For the next week, keep a diary using Form 1.1 of what you do while you study.

    Include:

        When you start and stop (time and date).
        What you study.
        What you did to Prepare.
        What Actions you took to learn.
        What you did to Test yourself.

After about a week, identify the best things you did and the things you think you should change while you study. These should include skills such as reading and note taking, attitudes such as "disorganized" and "unsystematic", mental approaches such as "bored" and "not interested", and physical states such as "tired" and "sore from athletic practice." 
A systematic review is a type of literature review that collects and critically analyzes multiple research studies or papers. A review of existing studies is often quicker and cheaper than embarking on a new study. Researchers use methods that are selected before one or more research questions are formulated, and then they aim to find and analyze studies that relate to and answer those questions.[1] Systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials are key in the practice of evidence-based medicine.[2]

An understanding of systematic reviews, and how to implement them in practice, is highly recommended for professionals involved in the delivery of health care. Besides health interventions, systematic reviews may examine clinical tests, public health interventions, environmental interventions,[3] social interventions, adverse effects, and economic evaluations.[4][5] Systematic reviews are not limited to medicine and are quite common in all other sciences where data are collected, published in the literature, and an assessment of methodological quality for a precisely defined subject would be helpful.[6]

Contents

    1 Characteristics
    2 Stages of a systematic review
    3 Cochrane Collaboration
    4 Strengths and weaknesses
    5 See also
    6 References
    7 External links

Characteristics

A systematic review aims to provide a complete, exhaustive summary of current literature relevant to a research question. The first step in conducting a systematic review is to perform a thorough search of the literature for relevant papers. The Methodology section of a systematic review will list all of the databases and citation indexes that were searched such as Web of Science, Embase, and PubMed and any individual journals that were searched. The titles and abstracts of identified articles are checked against pre-determined criteria for eligibility and relevance to form an inclusion set. This set will relate back to the research problem. Each included study may be assigned an objective assessment of methodological quality preferably by using methods conforming to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) statement (the current guideline)[7] or the high quality standards of Cochrane collaboration.[8]

Systematic reviews often, but not always, use statistical techniques (meta-analysis) to combine results of eligible studies, or at least use scoring of the levels of evidence depending on the methodology used. An additional rater may be consulted to resolve any scoring differences between raters.[6] Systematic review is often applied in the biomedical or healthcare context, but it can be applied in any field of research. Groups like the Campbell Collaboration are promoting the use of systematic reviews in policy-making beyond just healthcare.

A systematic review uses an objective and transparent approach for research synthesis, with the aim of minimizing bias. While many systematic reviews are based on an explicit quantitative meta-analysis of available data, there are also qualitative reviews which adhere to standards for gathering, analyzing and reporting evidence.[9] The EPPI-Centre has been influential in developing methods for combining both qualitative and quantitative research in systematic reviews.[10] The PRISMA statement[11] suggests a standardized way to ensure a transparent and complete reporting of systematic reviews, and is now required for this kind of research by more than 170 medical journals worldwide.[12]

Recent developments in systematic reviews include realist reviews,[13] and the meta-narrative approach.[14][15] These approaches try to overcome the problems of methodological and epistemological heterogeneity in the diverse literatures existing on some subjects.
Stages of a systematic review

The main stages of a systematic review are:
A visualisation of data being 'extracted' and 'combined' in a Cochrane systematic review.[16]

    Defining a question and agreeing an objective method.[16]
    A search for relevant data from research that matches certain criteria. For example, only selecting research that is good quality and answers the defined question.[16]
    'Extraction' of relevant data. This can include how the research was done (often called the method or 'intervention'), who participated in the research (including how many people), how it was paid for (for example funding sources) and what happened (the outcomes).[16]
    Assess the quality of the data by judging it against criteria identified at the first stage.[16]
    Analyse and combine the data (using complex statistical methods) which give an overall result from all of the data. This combination of data can be visualised using a blobbogram (also called a forest plot).[16] The diamond in the blobbogram represents the combined results of all the data included. Because this combined result uses data from more sources than just one data set, it’s considered more reliable and better evidence, as the more data there is, the more confident we can be of conclusions.[16]

Once these stages are complete, the review may be published, disseminated and translated into practice after being adopted as evidence.
Cochrane Collaboration

The Cochrane Collaboration is a group of over 31,000 specialists in healthcare who systematically review randomised trials of the effects of prevention, treatments and rehabilitation as well as health systems interventions. When appropriate, they also include the results of other types of research. Cochrane Reviews are published in The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews section of the Cochrane Library. The 2015 impact factor for The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews was 6.103, and it was ranked 12th in the “Medicine, General & Internal” category.[17] There are six types of Cochrane Review:[18][19][20][21]

    Intervention reviews assess the benefits and harms of interventions used in healthcare and health policy.
    Diagnostic test accuracy reviews assess how well a diagnostic test performs in diagnosing and detecting a particular disease.
    Methodology reviews address issues relevant to how systematic reviews and clinical trials are conducted and reported.
    Qualitative reviews synthesize qualitative and quantitative evidence to address questions on aspects other than effectiveness.[9]
    Prognosis reviews address the probable course or future outcome(s) of people with a health problem.
    Overviews of Systematic Reviews (OoRs) are a new type of study in order to compile multiple evidence from systematic reviews into a single document that is accessible and useful to serve as a friendly front end for the Cochrane Collaboration with regard to healthcare decision-making.

The Cochrane Collaboration provides a handbook for systematic reviewers of interventions which "provides guidance to authors for the preparation of Cochrane Intervention reviews."[8] The Cochrane Handbook outlines eight general steps for preparing a systematic review:[8]

    Defining the review question(s) and developing criteria for including studies
    Searching for studies
    Selecting studies and collecting data
    Assessing risk of bias in included studies
    Analysing data and undertaking meta-analyses
    Addressing reporting biases
    Presenting results and "summary of findings" tables
    Interpreting results and drawing conclusions

The Cochrane Handbook forms the basis of two sets of standards for the conduct and reporting of Cochrane Intervention Reviews (MECIR - Methodological Expectations of Cochrane Intervention Reviews)[22]

The Cochrane Collaboration logo visually represents how results from some systematic reviews can be explained.[23] The lines within illustrate the summary results from an iconic systematic review showing the benefit of corticosteroids, which 'has probably saved thousands of premature babies'.[24]
Strengths and weaknesses

While systematic reviews are regarded as the strongest form of medical evidence, a review of 300 studies found that not all systematic reviews were equally reliable, and that their reporting can be improved by a universally agreed upon set of standards and guidelines.[25] A further study by the same group found that of 100 systematic reviews monitored, 7% needed updating at the time of publication, another 4% within a year, and another 11% within 2 years; this figure was higher in rapidly changing fields of medicine, especially cardiovascular medicine.[26] A 2003 study suggested that extending searches beyond major databases, perhaps into grey literature, would increase the effectiveness of reviews.[27]

Roberts and colleagues highlighted the problems with systematic reviews, particularly those conducted by the Cochrane Collaboration, noting that published reviews are often biased, out of date and excessively long.[28] They criticized Cochrane reviews as not being sufficiently critical in the selection of trials and including too many of low quality. They proposed several solutions, including limiting studies in meta-analyses and reviews to registered clinical trials, requiring that original data be made available for statistical checking, paying greater attention to sample size estimates, and eliminating dependence on only published data.

Some of these difficulties were noted early on as described by Altman: "much poor research arises because researchers feel compelled for career reasons to carry out research that they are ill equipped to perform, and nobody stops them."[29] Methodological limitations of meta-analysis have also been noted.[30] Another concern is that the methods used to conduct a systematic review are sometimes changed once researchers see the available trials they are going to include.[31] Bloggers have described retractions of systematic reviews and published reports of studies included in published systematic reviews.[32][33][34]

Systematic reviews are increasingly prevalent in other fields, such as international development research.[35] Subsequently, a number of donors – most notably the UK Department for International Development (DFID) and AusAid – are focusing more attention and resources on testing the appropriateness of systematic reviews in assessing the impacts of development and humanitarian interventions.[35]
See also

    Critical appraisal
    Literature review
    Peer review
    Review journal




