Timeinc logo2
Apply Now

Data Scientist

at Time Inc.
New York, NY

Time Inc. (NYSE:TIME) is a leading content company that engages over 150
million consumers every month through our portfolio of premium brands across
platforms. By combining our distinctive content with our proprietary data and
people-based targeting, we offer highly differentiated end-to-end solutions to
marketers across the multi-media landscape. Our influential brands include
People, Time, Fortune, Sports Illustrated, InStyle, Real Simple and Southern
Living, as well as more than 50 diverse titles in the United Kingdom. Time Inc.
has been extending the power of our brands through various acquisitions and
investments, including Viant, an advertising technology firm with a specialized
people-based marketing platform, The Foundry, Time Inc.’s creative lab and
content studio, and the People Entertainment Weekly Network (PEN). The company
is also home to celebrated events, such as the Time 100, Fortune Most Powerful
Women, People’s Sexiest Man Alive, Sports Illustrated’s Sportsperson of the
Year, the Essence Festival and the Food & Wine Classic in Aspen.

 

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

 

 

You will:

  • Lead activities across the data analytics lifecycle: business case
    definition, data collection, cleaning, integration, analysis,
    visualization, reporting and feedback loops.
  • Communicate and coordinate effectively with product managers, software
    engineers, analytical groups, and customer-facing teams in agile
    environments
  • Manage data processing pipelines for analyzing gigabyte to terabyte-scale
    data from multiple sources.
  • Design actionable data products based on statistical analysis and machine
    learning methods and lead the their deployment to enterprise systems to
    move the needle for TimeInc’s business.
  • Be a continual learner and leader in the areas of ad technology, marketing
    operations, data ecosystems, content operations, social media analysis, and
    industry standard measurements as they pertain to TimeInc’s business
    functions: consumer marketing, advertising data solutions, retail sales,
    editorial, and digital content.

You are:

  • Able to collaborate with stakeholders, partners, and clients to ensure all
    parties are aligned and supportive of the project's priorities,
    requirements, timeline, and objectives.
  • Proficient in one or more core data science programming languages (R or
    Python) and the ability to become functional in emergent languages, APIs as
    needed.
  • Proficient in the MapReduce paradigm on the Amazon or Google cloud
    environments
  • Able to extract and load data from the web using REST APIs, query
    endpoints, and web crawling techniques.
  • Well versed with SQL, JSON, or XPATH declarative languages.
  • Experienced with data manipulation and mining of structured and
    unstructured text.
  • Developer of concise visualizations for business stakeholders using a
    variety of visualization tools from MS Excel, libraries in R / Python, and
    analytics suites such as Tableau; able to fuse results of multiple
    analytical tools

 

Apply for this Job
* Required
(Optional)
Almost there! Review your information then click 'Submit Application' to apply.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
First Name * [                    ]
Last Name * [                    ]
Email * [                    ]
Phone [                    ]
Location (City) * [                    ]
Resume/CV *
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
Cover Letter
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
LinkedIn Profile:
[                    ]
Website:
[                    ]
How did you hear about us? *
[Please select                                       ]
How many years of relevant experience do you have?
[Please select]
Would you consider freelance/part-time/contract opportunities?
[-- ]
What is your minimum required salary range?
[Please select   ]
Are you willing to relocate? *
[-- ]
Have you worked with Time Inc. in the past? *
[Please select                        ]
Are you currently interviewing for another role at Time Inc.? *
[-- ]
Are you legally authorized to work in the US? *
[-- ]
Do you affirm that all statements in this application are true and complete,
and acknowledge that if any information submitted herein is false or
misleading, employment may be denied or terminated. Do you further understand
and acknowledge that employment and continuing employment are contingent upon
your ability to provide satisfactory proof of your right to accept and/or
continue employment with the company in accordance with applicable law. Do you
understand and agree that as part of the application process, you may be
required to undergo pre-employment drug testing, background screening, and a
credit check, as permitted by applicable law and depending on the position for
which you are applying. *
[-- ]
I agree to the Terms of Use for this site. *

  • United States - Terms and conditions
  • United Kingdom - Terms and conditions
  • India - Terms and conditions
  • Netherlands - Terms and conditions

[-- ]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
U.S. Equal Opportunity Employment Information (Completion is voluntary)

Individuals seeking employment at Time Inc. are considered without regards to
race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, marital status, ancestry,
physical or mental disability, veteran status, gender identity, or sexual
orientation. You are being given the opportunity to provide the following
information in order to help us comply with federal and state Equal Employment
Opportunity/Affirmative Action record keeping, reporting, and other legal
requirements.

Completion of the form is entirely voluntary. Whatever your decision, it will
not be considered in the hiring process or thereafter. Any information that you
do provide will be recorded and maintained in a confidential file.

Gender [Please select           ]
Are you Hispanic/Latino? [Please select           ]
Please identify your race [Please select                            ]
Race & Ethnicity Definitions

If you believe you belong to any of the categories of protected veterans listed
below, please indicate by making the appropriate selection. As a government
contractor subject to Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act
(VEVRAA), we request this information in order to measure the effectiveness of
the outreach and positive recruitment efforts we undertake pursuant to VEVRAA.
Classification of protected categories is as follows:

A "disabled veteran" is one of the following: a veteran of the U.S. military,
ground, naval or air service who is entitled to compensation (or who but for
the receipt of military retired pay would be entitled to compensation) under
laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; or a person who was
discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected
disability.

A "recently separated veteran" means any veteran during the three-year period
beginning on the date of such veteran's discharge or release from active duty
in the U.S. military, ground, naval, or air service.

An "active duty wartime or campaign badge veteran" means a veteran who served
on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service during a war,
or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized
under the laws administered by the Department of Defense.

An "Armed forces service medal veteran" means a veteran who, while serving on
active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service, participated in
a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces service medal was
awarded pursuant to Executive Order 12985.

Veteran Status 
[Please select                                                          ]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Form CC-305

OMB Control Number 1250-0005

Expires 1/31/2017

Voluntary Self-Identification of Disability

Why are you being asked to complete this form?

Because we do business with the government, we must reach out to, hire, and
provide equal opportunity to qualified people with disabilities^1. To help us
measure how well we are doing, we are asking you to tell us if you have a
disability or if you ever had a disability. Completing this form is voluntary,
but we hope that you will choose to fill it out. If you are applying for a job,
any answer you give will be kept private and will not be used against you in
any way.

If you already work for us, your answer will not be used against you in any
way. Because a person may become disabled at any time, we are required to ask
all of our employees to update their information every five years. You may
voluntarily self-identify as having a disability on this form without fear of
any punishment because you did not identify as having a disability earlier.

How do I know if I have a disability?

You are considered to have a disability if you have a physical or mental
impairment or medical condition that substantially limits a major life
activity, or if you have a history or record of such an impairment or medical
condition.

Disabilities include, but are not limited to:

  • Blindness
  • Deafness
  • Cancer
  • Diabetes
  • Epilepsy
  • Autism
  • Cerebral palsy
  • HIV/AIDS
  • Schizophrenia
  • Muscular dystrophy
  • Bipolar disorder
  • Major depression
  • Multiple sclerosis (MS)
  • Missing limbs or partially missing limbs
  • Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
  • Obsessive compulsive disorder
  • Impairments requiring the use of a wheelchair
  • Intellectual disability (previously called mental retardation)

Disability Status [Please select                                            ]
Reasonable Accommodation Notice

Federal law requires employers to provide reasonable accommodation to qualified
individuals with disabilities. Please tell us if you require a reasonable
accommodation to apply for a job or to perform your job. Examples of reasonable
accommodation include making a change to the application process or work
procedures, providing documents in an alternate format, using a sign language
interpreter, or using specialized equipment.

^1Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. For more
information about this form or the equal employment obligations of Federal
contractors, visit the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Federal Contract
Compliance Programs (OFCCP) website at www.dol.gov/ofccp.

PUBLIC BURDEN STATEMENT: According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 no
persons are required to respond to a collection of information unless such
collection displays a valid OMB control number. This survey should take about 5
minutes to complete.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
[Submit Application]
Share this job:  
Powered by  Greenhouse Logo
Read our Privacy Policy
