
 [p]
                                                                      ?     [p]
[pixel]       Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Current [pixel]
                page                                  page                                  page                                 page
                Home                                 Search                                Search                                 Job                                                                                                          
                                                    openings                               results                              details
 
   # Job details
                  
   [pixel]                                    [pixel]
   [pixel]

  [pixel]
                                  Job 1 of 1
  [pixel]

              Apply to job   Save to cart   View similar jobs  

   [pixel]

   Original       13-Dec-2016
   Posting Date

   Supervisory    Psychiatry - VA Other Research
   Organization

   STARS
   Requisition    41069BR
   number

   University Job Research Assistant 1 HSS
   Title

   Posting        Research Assistant 1HSS
   Position Title

   Bargaining     L34 - Local 34 (Yale Union Group)
   Unit

   Time Type      Full time

   Duration Type  Fixed

   If Fixed
   Duration, is   Yes
   continuation
   possible?

   Other Fixed    31-Dec-2017
   Duration Date

   Compensation   Labor Grade C
   Grade

   Work Location  Medical School Campus

   Worksite       950 Campbell Avenue West Haven, CT 06516
   Address

   Work Week      Standard (M-F equal number of hours per day)

   Total # of
   hours to be    37.5
   worked:

   Position       Working in close collaboration with the PI and senior
   Focus:         Associate Research Scientist, this individual will
                  provide research support to human subjects studies
                  focused on PTSD and depression.

                  This individual will have a myriad of principal
                  responsibilities:

                  Carries out research within the scope of the established
                  study protocols. Adheres to all human subjects
                  regulations as defined by Yale University and the federal
                  government that pertain to research studies. Reviews and
                  adheres to eligibility criteria for admission of study
                  participants based on goals and objectives of project.
                  Completes telephone screens for potential participants.
                  Schedules and coordinates subject visits. Assists in data
                  management including data collection and entry, visual
                  inspection, data cleaning, and validation, and analysis.
                  Supports participant recruitment and retention efforts to
                  include community outreach and telephone retention calls
                  at VA and Yale, recruiting Veterans and civilians with
                  PTSD and depression. Administers and scores clinical,
                  behavioral, and cognitive assessments to research
                  participants. Responsible for the documentation and
                  transmission of study data. Ensures that report forms are
                  accurately documented and completed in a timely manner.
                  Assists with IRB and regulatory submissions and
                  reporting. Monitor office and research supplies. Other
                  related research responsibilities as assigned.

   Essential      1. Researches and collects data through site or home
   Duties         visit intakes; library research; structured interviews;
                  or through other means for designated research
                  assignments. 2. Records and compiles information related
                  to research data. Codes data accordingly to research
                  specifications. Uses a computer terminal to input and
                  retrieve data and to generate reports. 3. Processes and
                  summarizes data using scientific or statistical
                  techniques. Assists in data interpretation and analyses.
                  Reports on status of research activities. 4. Recruits
                  study participants and ensures that subject recruitment
                  and follow-up are completed per protocol procedures. 5.
                  Orders and maintains inventory of supplies. May assist in
                  designing, developing, and modifying research
                  experiments, procedures, or survey instruments. May
                  assist research and support staff. 6. Performs additional
                  functions incidental to research activities.

   Required       Six years of related work experience, four of them in the
   Education and  same job family at the next lower level, and high school
   Experience     level education; or four years of related work experience
                  and an Associate's degree; or little or no work
                  experience and a Bachelor's degree in a related field; or
                  an equivalent combination of experience and education.

   Required Skill Highly organized, flexible, and self-directed; proven
   /Ability 1:    ability to work independently and efficiently to manage
                  multiple competing assignments within designated time
                  frames.

   Required Skill Demonstrated initiative in decision-making and
   /Ability 2:    problem-solving.

   Required Skill Excellent oral, written, and interpersonal skills.
   /Ability 3:

   Required Skill Demonstrated skills in a research environment.
   /Ability 4:

   Required Skill Strong computer skills.
   /Ability 5:

   Preferred      A master's degree in a related discipline or a bachelor?s
   Education,     degree in a related discipline and two year's experience
   Experience and working on funded research or evaluation studies.
   Skills:

   Weekend Hours  Occasional
   Required?

   Evening Hours  Occasional
   Required?

   Drug Screen    No

   Health         No
   Screening

   Background     All candidates for employment will be subject to
   Check          pre-employment background screening for this position,
   Requirements   which may include motor vehicle, DOT certification, drug
                  testing and credit checks based on the position
                  description and job requirements. All offers are
                  contingent upon the successful completion of the
                  background check. Click here for additional information
                  on the background check requirements and process.

   Posting        The intent of this job description is to provide a
   Disclaimer     representative summary of the essential functions that
                  will be required of the position and should not be
                  construed as a declaration of specific duties and
                  responsibilities of the particular position. Employees
                  will be assigned specific job-related duties through
                  their hiring departments.

   Affirmative    Yale University considers applicants for employment
   Action         without regard to, and does not discriminate on the basis
   Statement:     of, an individual?s sex, race, color, religion, age,
                  disability, status as a veteran, or national or ethnic
                  origin; nor does Yale discriminate on the basis of sexual
                  orientation or gender identity or expression. Title IX of
                  the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from sex
                  discrimination in educational programs and activities at
                  institutions that receive federal financial assistance.
                  Questions regarding Title IX may be referred to the
                  University?s Title IX Coordinator, at TitleIX@yale.edu,
                  or to the U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil
                  Rights, 8th Floor, Five Post Office Square, Boston MA
                  02109-3921. Telephone: 617.289.0111, Fax: 617.289.0150,
                  TDD: 800.877.8339, or Email: ocr.boston@ed.gov.

   Note           Yale University is a tobacco-free campus

              Apply to job   Save to cart   View similar jobs  

 
