Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Sr. Data Scientist

Sr. Data Scientist

Job ID 
    2017-45775

Location 
    US-CA-Los Angeles

Category 
    ..

Posted Date 
    1/4/2017

More information about this job:

Overview:

We are looking for a data scientist to join a newly formed data science and
engineering team at tronc in our Los Angeles office.  The team’s mission is to
build data solutions to serve the broad set of digital properties owned by
Tribune including brands like the LA Times, Chicago Tribune, Baltimore Sun, and
150 other publications.

Responsibilities:

As a data scientist at tronc you will have the chance to develop data models
from our rich news content that are viewed and read by nearly 100 million
people a month around the world.   You’ll be working on a cross-functional team
including engineers and data scientists to help drive what a news website
should be in the 21st century.

 

Projects you might work on: 

  • Personalization and audience modeling
  • Content classification and understanding
  • Semantic understanding and classification of images
  • Optimization of content for different delivery channels (web, mobile,
    social, etc.)

Qualifications:

  • Advanced degree in a quantitative field
  • 2+ years developing machine learning models in industry
  • Proven ability to develop machine learning models that solve business
    problems
  • Strong understanding of modern machine learning techniques including
    regression, classification, clustering, and their use with text data
  • Expert in at least one of the following: NLP / Computational Linguistics,
    Recommender Systems, Deep Learning
  • Strong programming skills (Python / Java / Scala preferred)

Apply for this job:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Go back to the welcome page
