[logo_p6v4]                            Careers    |    Contact Verisk
HomeAbout VeriskConferencesPressInvestorsBlog

            Data Scientist


             

                                                        [Submit Now!] 

            Job ID:  20161212-8672-EF            Company Name:  Verisk
                                                   Insurance Solutions

            Description:

             

             

            If you’re looking for a career that transforms, inspires,
            challenges, and rewards you, then come join us! Verisk
            Analytics is a global supplier of risk assessment services
            and decision analytics for customers in a variety of
            markets, including insurance, healthcare, financial
            services, supply chain, and others. We’re a thriving
            public company with solid revenue growth and earnings and
            offices worldwide.  And we’re continually looking for ways
            to augment our existing markets and expand into new
            markets with excellent growth potential. At Verisk, you’ll
            be part of an organization that’s committed to serving the
            long-term interests of our stakeholders, including the
            communities where we operate.

            Position Summary

            Our Claims Analytics business is seeking an experienced
            Data Scientist to serve as a technical resource in the
            conception and development of new predictive modeling
            initiatives.  *Candidates could work out of either Jersey
            City, NJ, Lehi, UT, San Francisco, North Reading, MA or
            Columbia, SC office.

             Responsibilities

              • Acquire knowledge about the insurance business, claim
                analytics and advanced analytics by working with SMEs
                and key business areas
              • Work in a collaborative and dynamic work environment
                providing recommendations to management on projects
                that deal with claim analytics and advanced analytical
                related concepts
              • Build best in class analytical datasets by performing
                data cleansing, variable creation, variable
                transformation, etc.,
              • Design and build machine learning & statistical models
                and conduct analyses at the appropriate level of
                complexity to produce relevant results for the
                business
              • Under the direction of senior team members, execute
                needed business diagnostics to enable productization
U.S. Job        and deployment
Search        • Provide input to team leadership on implementation
Login to        specifications and production testing
Job Section
My            ● Keep abreast of business trends / product needs
Candidate     ● Research literature to stay current on technical
Home            methods to solve specific problems
Help with
Job          
Application
Non-U.S.    Requirements
Job Search
Careers       ● Graduate degree (M.S. required, Ph.D. preferred) in a
Overview        quantitative discipline
              ● Experience building predictive and descriptive
                models                                                
              ● Knowledge and experience in statistical and data
                mining techniques (e.g. - GLM/Regression, Boosting,
                Random Forest, Trees, Clustering, PCA, SVM, text
                mining, social network analysis etc.)
              ● Familiar with statistical packages in Spark ML-Lib,
                Python, R, or SAS
              ● Ability to program in Python, Scala, Spark, R, or SAS
                is highly desirable
              ● Understanding of RDBMs and interactive SQL programming
                skills
              ● Aptitude for picking up new technologies is expected

             

            We offer an excellent compensation package. Our benefits
            package is competitive and includes full healthcare
            options, a 401(k) plan, and a generous Paid-Time-Off
            program.

            All members of the Verisk Analytics Family of Companies
            are equal opportunity employers.  All qualified applicants
            will receive consideration for employment without regard
            to race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
            disability, protected veteran status, or any other legally
            protected classification.

             #LI-EF1
            
            Requirements:

            
            Expertise       Scientific
            Education       Masters (or equivalent work experience)
            Job Type        Full Time
            Location        SC-Columbia, NJ-Jersey City, CA-San
                            Francisco, UT-Lehi
            Years of        1-3 Years
            Experience
            

                                          [Refer This Job to a Friend]

                                                        [Submit Now!] 


                               [Return to Job List]



            All members of the Verisk Analytics family of companies
            are equal opportunity employers. We consider all qualified
            applicants for employment without regard to race,
            religion, color, national origin, citizenship, sex, gender
            identity and/or expression, sexual orientation, veteran's
            status, age or disability.

                     Privacy PolicyConditions of UseVerisk Analytics Trademarks
