_
[globe2]  Change  [nav_divide] Home [nav_divide] Log [nav_divide] [cart2] Shopping [nav_divide] Sales & [nav_divide] Tell Us [green_link] _
         Language                                In                         Cart                Service
[s]   [swagelok_l]        [s]   Fluid System Technologies                     _
                                [spacer]
[spacer]
_ Products Services Markets Resources About Us News & Events My Account
[about_defa]
Home > About Us > Careers
                        Job Details

Careers
_Browse Open Jobs                                                                          Apply Online
[s]Search Open Jobs     
[s]Submit Your          
Resume                  Requisition Number    16-0580
[s]Edit Your Profile    Post Date             7/25/2016
                        Title                 Data Scientist
                        City                  Solon
                        Shift                 First
                        Description           Position Summary:

                                              The Data Scientist will work with the team to create
                                              state-of-the-art data and analytics driven solutions,
                                              developing and deploying cutting edge scalable
                                              algorithms, working across Swagelok to drive business
                                              analytics to a new level of predictive and prescriptive
                                              analytics while leveraging data tools and technologies.
                                              You will be supporting all aspects of the business cross
                                              functionally through operations modeling and analytics.

                                              Essential Duties & Responsibilities:

                                              ? Advocate, evangelize and build data-fueled models that
                                              will help our organization improve decision making
                                              capabilities.
                                              ? Become an expert on our manufacturing, customer
                                              service, supply chain, products and engineering datasets.
                                              ? Will provide insight into leading analytic practices
                                              ? Design and lead iterative learning and development
                                              cycles
                                              ? Ultimately produce new and creative analytic solutions
                                              that will become part of our core deliverables
                                              ? Champion the use of data analytics and insight across
                                              the company
                                              ? Handle large data sets and complex queries to address a
                                              hyper growth and fast changing business
                                              ? Execute all phases of the application implementation
                                              from initial identification of a tool through completion
                                              and training the users of the system.
                                              ? Collaborate with the Data and IS team to develop tools
                                              and identify opportunities for improved data performance
                                              and efficiency
                                              ? Foster a focused and pragmatic approach combining
                                              advanced analytics, statistics, new technologies, and
                                              deep insights to drive decisions
                                              ? Lead applied analytics initiatives that are leveraged
                                              across the breadth of our solutions
                                              ? Research, design, implement and validate cutting-edge
                                              algorithms to analyze diverse sources of data to achieve
                                              targeted outcomes.
                                              ? Assess analytical tools, technology and external data
                                              acquisition; support proof-of-concepts that drive
                                              business success and sustained analytic growth.
                                              ? Use and promote data-exploration techniques to discover
                                              new or previously unasked questions.
                                              ? Communicate data findings to both business and IS
                                              partners to influence how an organization approaches and
                                              meets business challenges of an evolving customer base
                                              and changing marketplace, using strong business acumen.
                                              ? Collaborates with IS and other analysts cross
                                              functionally to develop, refine and scale data management
                                              and analytics procedures, systems, workflows, best
                                              practices and other issues.
                                              ? Provide expertise on mathematical concepts for the
                                              broader applied analytics team and inspire the adoption
                                              of advanced analytics and data science across the entire
                                              organization.
                                              ? Influence stakeholders to make improvements that yield
                                              business value by effectively making compelling cases
                                              through story-telling, visualizations, and other
                                              influencing tools.
                                              ? Contribute to the development of Swagelok?s
                                              comprehensive business intelligence framework, enabling
                                              the connection of data to information.
                        Requirements          Education and/or Work Experience Requirements:

                                              Required:
                                              ? Minimum 7 to 10 years of experience delivering
                                              world-class data science outcomes
                                              ? Solving complex analytical problems using quantitative
                                              approaches
                                              ? Demonstrating a unique blend of analytical,
                                              mathematical and technical skills
                                              ? Propose analytics strategies and solutions that
                                              challenge and expand thinking
                                              ? Expert in analyzing large, complex, multi-dimensional
                                              datasets with a variety of tools
                                              ? Accomplished in the use of statistical analysis
                                              environments such as R, MATLAB, SPSS or SAS
                                              ? Have experience with BI tools such as Qlikview, Tableau
                                              and SAP Business Objects
                                              ? Excel at making complex concepts simple and easy to
                                              understand
                                              ? Driven to show the world the power of applied
                                              analytics.
                                              ? Experience with various programming languages
                                              ? Proficient in SQL
                                              ? Problem solving mentality with a natural desire to dig
                                              to the underlying answers
                                              ? Strong statistical background that values meaningful
                                              insights and can separate the ?noise from the signal?
                                              ? Master?s degree in a related field (Computer Science,
                                              Math, Statistics, Physics) or related fields. Ph.D. is
                                              preferred.
                                              ? Excellent interpersonal communication skills





                                              Preferred:

                                              ? Skilled in all aspects of conducting business
                                              intelligence research
                                              ? Excellent strategic thinking abilities and analytical
                                              skills
                                              ? Ability to evaluate business issues and opportunities
                                              that can be solved through attaining insight.
                                              ? Must be able to think above the tactical level
                                              ? Company awareness and ability to work and network with
                                              business partners and colleagues from different areas
                                              ? Ability to deal with ambiguity
                                              ? Mastery of visual, written and oral communications
                                              ? Ability to organize and handle multiple requests and
                                              projects
                                              ? Ability to influence without authority, motivate
                                              others, and maintain high levels of respect for and from
                                              peers
                                              ? Formal project management skills highly desired.



                                              Critical Competencies:

                                              ? Organizational awareness, business acumen, initiative,
                                              influence, customer orientation, coaching, teamwork and
                                              collaboration


                                              Working Conditions and/or Physical Requirements:


                                              ? Physical requirements associated with normal office
                                              working environment.
                                              ? Ability to operate standard office equipment.
                                              ? Ability to safely and successfully perform the
                                              essential job functions consistent with the ADA, FMLA and
                                              other federal, state and local standards, including
                                              meeting qualitative and/or quantitative productivity
                                              standards.
                                              ? Ability to maintain regular, punctual attendance
                                              consistent with the ADA, FMLA and other federal, state
                                              and local standards.
                                              Click here to enter text.


                                              Swagelok is proud to be an Equal Opportunity and
                                              Affirmative Action Employer. Applicants are selected
                                              without regard to race, ethnicity, creed, color,
                                              religion, sex (including pregnancy), age, national origin
                                              or ancestry, disability, genetic information, veteran/
                                              military status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or
                                              other protected characteristic under federal, state or
                                              local law.

                                              Swagelok will make reasonable accommodations in
                                              compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of
                                              1990 and the Americans with Disabilities Act Amendments
                                              Act of 2008.

                                              This job summary is intended to be brief and does not
                                              list all the duties for this position. Nothing in this
                                              job description should be construed as an express or
                                              implied contract of employment. Swagelok is an at-will
                                              employer, which means that either party is free to
                                              terminate the employment relationship at any time,
                                              without any advanced notice, for any reason or no reason.
                        Swagelok is proud to be an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Employer.
                        Applicants are selected without regard to race, ethnicity, creed, color,
                        religion, sex (including pregnancy), age, national origin or ancestry,
                        disability, genetic information, veteran/military status, sexual orientation,
                        gender identity, or other protected characteristic under federal, state or
                        local law. Swagelok will make reasonable accommodations in compliance with the
                        Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the Americans with Disabilities Act
                        Amendments Act of 2008.

                        Swagelok will not discharge or in any other manner discriminate against
                        employees or applicants because they have inquired about, discussed, or
                        disclosed their own pay or the pay of another employee or applicant. However,
                        employees who have access to the compensation information of other employees or
                        applicants as a part of their essential job functions cannot disclose the pay
                        of other employees or applicants to individuals who do not otherwise have
                        access to compensation information, unless the disclosure is (a) in response to
                        a formal complaint or charge, (b) in furtherance of an investigation,
                        proceeding, hearing, or action, including an investigation conducted by the
                        employer, or (c) consistent with the contractor?s legal duty to furnish
                        information.

                        This job summary is intended to be brief and does not list all the duties for
                        this position. Nothing in this job description should be construed as an
                        express or implied contract of employment. Swagelok is an at-will employer,
                        which means that either party is free to terminate the employment relationship
                        at any time, without any advanced notice, for any reason or no reason.

                        Please view Equal Employment Opportunity Posters provided by OFCCP here.

                                              Apply On-line
                                              Send This Job to a Friend
 
Privacy Policy [nav_divide] Terms and Conditions [nav_divide] Site Requirements
[nav_divide] Trademarks [nav_divide] Careers [nav_divide] ? 2006 Swagelok
Company
