[299e9a7b-d]

Chief Data Scientist

Washington, DC
Data Science
Apply for this job

We are ambitious, well-funded, and plan to change a $1 trillion-dollar global
industry. This is no ordinary startup. We?ve brought on some of the most
passionate, intelligent, and seasoned founding team members on the planet. We
are building a product that will innovate business travel, delivering the cost
savings that companies demand and a new level of great incentives that business
travelers deserve. 

ABOUT YOU

      + You have 10-15 years of relevant experience in a data science/analytics
        role, preferably in an entrepreneurial environment or a travel related
        revenue management role.
      + You are looking to get in on the ground floor of a well-funded startup
        where you will lead a critical, first class part of the business
        operation.
      + Your expertise is in one or more of the following: pricing, modeling/
        mathematics, data mining and/or data analysis.
      + You have a bachelor?s degree in Computer Science, Engineering,
        Mathematics or other relevant fields.
      + You have a rare mix of management and hands-on experience with
        scripting and programming with modern tools like Python, Scala, Spark
        or Hadoop.
      + You are a self-starter who can multi-task, prioritize, and manage a
        multitude of conflicting priorities against competing deadlines with
        out breaking a sweat.
      + You are an excellent communicator and a joy to work with.
      + You have knowledge of statistics; regression, clustering, decision
        trees, exploratory data analysis methodology, simulation, scenario
        analysis and modeling.

ABOUT US

      + Lead the design, implementation and operation of a state of the art
        ?big data? analytics approach which is scalable and innovative in the
        way it extracts, manages and analyzes data from customers
      + The role is roughly 65% thought leadership and management and 35%
        hands-on working with data
      + Work with the engineering team to create a roadmap for data and
        analytics strategy, including infrastructure design and development of
        data model
      + Establish data policies, standards, organization and data governance
      + Develop innovative approaches to linking internal systems with external
        data
      + Design and monitor product pricing to optimize conversion rates as well
        as margins
      + Recruit and manage the Data Science Team to meet the business
        objectives as they evolve
      + Partner with the leadership team to develop long term growth strategies
        through product development and pricing optimization

ABOUT US
We are a team of no-nonsense risk-takers that thrive in our low structure, high
expectations culture. We are positive, passionate, playful, and always pushing
to be better. Our team is a hodgepodge of challenge seekers, travel gurus,
startup junkies, and data-miners who see the big picture.

YOU WANT TO TALK TO US IF?
?       You are motivated by disrupting the norm.
?       You have a great sense of humor and take your profession seriously, but
not yourself.
?       Your entrepreneurial spirit drives your bias for action.
?       You are all about constructive feedback - you can dish it out and you
can take it.
?       You thrive in the frenetic energy of a startup.

WHAT WE OFFER
?       Competitive salary + equity
?       Full health, vision, and dental coverage
?       401K plan
?       Open paid time off
?       Impromptu Nerf gun battles

Apply for this job

Upside Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
