CapTech Consulting

Data Scientist

  * Philadelphia, PA
  * Full-time

Company Description

CapTech is an award-winning national management technology-consulting firm with
an enterprising, entrepreneurial environment. We have achieved four straight
years ranked in the Top 10 of Consulting Magazine?s Best Firms to Work For,
including a #5 ranking overall in 2015. Additionally, we placed 28th within the
Vault Consulting 50 for the second year in a row, including a #5 ranking in
work/life balance.

At CapTech you?ll experience a flat organizational structure with access to
constant learning -- where your career path isn?t set in stone, and you have
unlimited potential for growth. CapTech is based upon a culture of mutual
respect. We look for, and hire the best. The creatively innovative, the
technically insightful, the driven, the self-managed, the value conscious, the
caring, and the gracious person ? these are all qualities that we look for
along with a love and a passion for the work that we do.  

Job Description

CapTech Data Scientists are responsible for designing and implementing
data-driven solutions for our clients, with specific focus on advanced
analytical methods, data models and visualizations. CapTech employees enjoy a
collaborative environment and have many opportunities to learn from and share
knowledge with other CapTech analysts, architects, and our clients.

Specific responsibilities for the Data Science position include:

  * Strategizing with clients on and implementing new analytical approaches
    (e.g., designing new segments to analyze customer behavior).
  * Developing data models and transformations, visualizations and reports
    using a variety of enterprise-level data platforms, e.g., Hadoop, Teradata,
    Amazon Web Services.
  * Designing and developing advanced analytical methods on client data (e.g.,
    link analysis, natural language processing, decision trees and risk
    scoring).
  * Deconstructing client needs into data-driven processes/models and
    analytical measures.
  * Growing CapTech?s data science practice through client presentations,
    writing proposals, attending various business development events and
    leading teams of junior data analysts.

Qualifications

Specific qualifications for the Data Scientist position include:

  * 5+ years of hands-on experience manipulating and analyzing large
    (multi-billion record) data sets.
  * Comfort and proficiency in generating cross-industry business requirements
    and translating them down to data-driven approaches. 
  * Experience in three (or more) of the following analytical practices:
    consumer analysis, marketing analysis, financial analysis, website
    analysis, healthcare analysis and/or social media analysis.
  * Expert proficiency in SQL, MapReduce/Hive, NoSQL and/or other data
    transformation techniques.
  * Moderate to expert proficiency in modern data manipulation techniques:
    Machine learning, natural language processing/text mining, predictive
    intelligence/statistics and simulation.
  * 3+ years of demonstrable Python programming experience
  * 5+ years of experience with enterprise reporting platforms (e.g., Tableau,
    Microstrategy, Business Objects, etc.) and developing advanced data
    visualizations.
  * Expert proficiency with data warehousing tools/environments: Base SAS,
    Teradata, Oracle, Hadoop, SQL Server.
  * 5+ years of experience developing analytical metrics and measures for
    business/C-suite level reporting.
  * Strong communication, PowerPoint and writing skills.

Additional Information

We offer challenging and impactful jobs with professional career paths. All
CapTechers can keep their hands on technology no matter what position they
hold. Our employees find their work exciting and rewarding in a culture filled
with opportunities to have fun along the way.

At CapTech we offer a competitive and comprehensive benefits package including,
but not limited to:

  * Competitive salary with performance based bonus opportunities
  * Single and Family Health Insurance plans, including Dental coverage
  * Short-Term and Long-Term disability
  * Matching 401(k)
  * Competitive Paid Time Off
  * Training and Certification opportunities eligible for expense reimbursement
  * Team building and social activities
  * Mentor program to help you develop your career

At this time, CapTech cannot transfer nor sponsor a work visa for this
position. Applicants must be authorized to work directly for any employer in
the United States without visa sponsorship.

Candidates must be eligible to work in the U.S. for any employer directly (we
are not open to contract or ?corp to corp? agreements). ??
CapTech is an equal opportunity employer. ?
CapTech is a Drug-Free work place.?
Candidates must have the ability to work at CapTech?s client locations. ?
All positions include the possibility of travel.
CapTech has not contracted/does not contract with any outside vendors in its
recruitment process. If you are interested in this position, please apply to
CapTech directly.



I'm interested
I'm interestedRefer a friend

share this job

  *  
  *  
  *  
  *  

Powered by 

[103236939]
