[logo_p6v4]                            Careers    |    Contact Verisk
HomeAbout VeriskConferencesPressInvestorsBlog

            Cloudy/Rainy Satellite Data Assimilation Scientist


             

                                                   [Submit Now!] 

            Job ID:  20170105-8772-CP          Company Name:  AER

            Description:

             

             

            Atmospheric and Environmental Research (AER) has an
            opportunity for a satellite data assimilation
            scientist to support the NOAA-NESDIS activities in
            cloud-, rain- and ice- impacted radiance data
            assimilation in operational Numerical Weather
            Prediction (NWP) models. Current approaches discard
            satellite data that are impacted by rain and ice and,
            to a certain extent, cloud. This screening prevents
            the current assimilation system from taking advantage
            of the information content in the satellite
            measurements in the regions of high importance to
            forecasts. To mitigate this problem, the Joint Center
            of Satellite Data Assimilation (JCSDA) is
            accelerating the development of methods to assimilate
            cloud/precipitation impacted microwave radiances. The
            work facility is located in the state-of-the-art NOAA
            Center for Weather and Climate Prediction (NCWCP)
            building in College Park, Maryland.

             

            AER assimilation scientists work in diverse areas
            including, radiative transfer, sensor simulation,
            characterization of atmospheric and surface
            properties from space-based observations, cloud
            analysis, and more. AER’s assimilation work
            assignments are interesting, challenging, varied, and
            rewarding. We are seeking self-motivated candidates
            with abilities to work in a team environment and
            independently. This project requires specialized
            experience in physical science, mathematics and
            computer science in at least some of the following
            areas: modern data assimilation methods (e.g.,
            variational and Kalman filtering), physically-based
            remote sensing/ assimilation of satellite data in NWP
            models (including forward operator error
            characterization and data quality control),
            variational retrieval methods. Experience with at
            least one satellite remote sensing data set is
            required. An advanced degree in meteorology/
            atmospheric sciences, applied mathematics, or a
U.S. Job    similar field is required. Because software and tools
Search      developed at the JCSDA are primarily composed of
Login to    modern FORTRAN, bash scripts, and IDL, proficiency in
Job Section these are desired.
My
Candidate    
Home
Help with   AER offers a competitive wage and benefit package.  
Job         AER is an equal opportunity employer and all
Application qualified applicants will receive consideration for
Non-U.S.    employment without regard to race, color, religion,
Job Search  sex, national origin, disability status, protected
Careers     veteran status, or any other characteristic protected
Overview    by law.  As a federal contractor, AER welcomes
            priority referrals of protected veterans and
            individuals with disabilities. Please apply online at
            https://careers.verisk.com/joblist.html?displaymode=
            -4.1020.

             

            Atmospheric and Environmental Research (AER) helps
            businesses and governments better anticipate and
            manage climate and weather-related risks. Large
            government agencies like NOAA, NASA and the
            Departments of Defense and Energy rely on AER’s
            scientists to help solve weather and climate related
            problems of vital national importance in energy,
            environment, national security and climate change.
            Large insurance, energy and investment firms count on
            AER to help them decrease weather-related losses and
            increase profitability by integrating
            state-of-the-art climate science and weather
            information into their planning and decision
            processes. Established in 1977, AER is headquartered
            in Lexington, Massachusetts and is a subsidiary of
            Verisk Analytics. For more information visit
            www.aer.com.

             

             
            
            Requirements:

            
            Expertise           --Staff Scientist
            Education           Masters
            Job Type            Full Time
            Location            MD-College Park
            Years of Experience 1-3 Years
            

                                     [Refer This Job to a Friend]

                                                   [Submit Now!] 


                            [Return to Job List]



            All members of the Verisk Analytics family of
            companies are equal opportunity employers. We
            consider all qualified applicants for employment
            without regard to race, religion, color, national
            origin, citizenship, sex, gender identity and/or
            expression, sexual orientation, veteran's status, age
            or disability.

                     Privacy PolicyConditions of UseVerisk Analytics Trademarks
