Apply Now

Machine Learning Engineer

at Planet (View all jobs)
San Francisco

Welcome to Planet. We believe in using space to help life on Earth.

Planet?s mission is to image the whole world every day and make global change
visible, accessible, and actionable. We have a people-centric approach toward
culture and community and we are iterating in a way that puts our team members
first and prepares our company for growth.  Be a part of our mission and help
build a company that is changing the world. 

We are currently seeking Machine Learning Engineers to join the team in January
as we build out this function for Planet.  

Change Detection is a high impact team that?s building next generation of
global coverage and daily imagery tools. We?re talking about the projects that
will help us move from seeing the past to understanding what?s happening today.
To achieve this, we?re working on software that utilizes the latest techniques
in data science and machine learning (including deep learning) and we?re
looking for talented engineers that have applied experience to join our team.

As a Machine Learning Engineer, you'll work on a small team and collaborate
closely with your peers on other product teams. You?re able to switch projects
easily as our fast-paced world evolves. We need our engineers to be versatile,
passionate and comfortable working with cutting-edge technology.

Responsibilities:

  * Participate in cutting-edge machine learning applications.
  * Develop solutions for real world, large scale problems.

The Must Haves:

  * Strong background in Computer Vision or Machine Learning.
  * BA/BS in Computer Science, related technical field or equivalent practical
    experience.
  * Experience with one or more general purpose programming languages including
    but not limited to: Java, C/C++, C#, Objective C, Python, Ruby, JavaScript,
    or Go.

The Nice to Haves:

  * 5+ years experience building software.
  * Experience reading and implementing research papers.
  * MS or PhD degree in Computer Science, Machine Learning or related technical
    field.
  * Experience with one or more general purpose deep learning frameworks
    including but not limited to Tensorflow, Theanos, Keras, Caffe, Torch, etc.

Some press about us:

Our CEO, Will Marshall's Dreamforce Talk

"A Tech Start-Up Just Restored My Faith in Humanity" by Kevin Roose, NY
Magazine

"A Start-Up Provides a Picture of Our Shape-Shifting Planet" by Quentin Hardy,
NYTimes Bits

About Planet:

Planet is headquartered in San Francisco, CA and has approximately 375
employees across its American, German, Netherlands and Canadian Offices.   This
role is part of a team we are newly forming in 2017 and will help define how we
build value on our unique data set.  If you are qualified, we'd love to talk! 

 

Apply for this Job
* Required
(Optional)
Almost there! Review your information then click 'Submit Application' to apply.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
First Name * [                    ]
Last Name * [                    ]
Email * [                    ]
Phone [                    ]
Resume/CV
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
Cover Letter
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LinkedIn Profile
[                    ]
Website
[                    ]
How did you hear about this job?
[                    ]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S. Equal Opportunity Employment Information (Completion is voluntary)

Individuals seeking employment at Planet are considered without regards to
race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, marital status, ancestry,
physical or mental disability, veteran status, gender identity, or sexual
orientation. You are being given the opportunity to provide the following
information in order to help us comply with federal and state Equal Employment
Opportunity/Affirmative Action record keeping, reporting, and other legal
requirements.

Completion of the form is entirely voluntary. Whatever your decision, it will
not be considered in the hiring process or thereafter. Any information that you
do provide will be recorded and maintained in a confidential file.

Gender [Please select           ]
Are you Hispanic/Latino? [Please select           ]
Please identify your race [Please select                            ]
Race & Ethnicity Definitions

If you believe you belong to any of the categories of protected veterans listed
below, please indicate by making the appropriate selection. As a government
contractor subject to Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act
(VEVRAA), we request this information in order to measure the effectiveness of
the outreach and positive recruitment efforts we undertake pursuant to VEVRAA.
Classification of protected categories is as follows:

A "disabled veteran" is one of the following: a veteran of the U.S. military,
ground, naval or air service who is entitled to compensation (or who but for
the receipt of military retired pay would be entitled to compensation) under
laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; or a person who was
discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected
disability.

A "recently separated veteran" means any veteran during the three-year period
beginning on the date of such veteran's discharge or release from active duty
in the U.S. military, ground, naval, or air service.

An "active duty wartime or campaign badge veteran" means a veteran who served
on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service during a war,
or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized
under the laws administered by the Department of Defense.

An "Armed forces service medal veteran" means a veteran who, while serving on
active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service, participated in
a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces service medal was
awarded pursuant to Executive Order 12985.

Veteran Status 
[Please select                                                          ]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Form CC-305

OMB Control Number 1250-0005

Expires 1/31/2017

Voluntary Self-Identification of Disability

Why are you being asked to complete this form?

Because we do business with the government, we must reach out to, hire, and
provide equal opportunity to qualified people with disabilities^1. To help us
measure how well we are doing, we are asking you to tell us if you have a
disability or if you ever had a disability. Completing this form is voluntary,
but we hope that you will choose to fill it out. If you are applying for a job,
any answer you give will be kept private and will not be used against you in
any way.

If you already work for us, your answer will not be used against you in any
way. Because a person may become disabled at any time, we are required to ask
all of our employees to update their information every five years. You may
voluntarily self-identify as having a disability on this form without fear of
any punishment because you did not identify as having a disability earlier.

How do I know if I have a disability?

You are considered to have a disability if you have a physical or mental
impairment or medical condition that substantially limits a major life
activity, or if you have a history or record of such an impairment or medical
condition.

Disabilities include, but are not limited to:

  * Blindness
  * Deafness
  * Cancer
  * Diabetes
  * Epilepsy
  * Autism
  * Cerebral palsy
  * HIV/AIDS
  * Schizophrenia
  * Muscular dystrophy
  * Bipolar disorder
  * Major depression
  * Multiple sclerosis (MS)
  * Missing limbs or partially missing limbs
  * Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
  * Obsessive compulsive disorder
  * Impairments requiring the use of a wheelchair
  * Intellectual disability (previously called mental retardation)

Disability Status [Please select                                            ]
Reasonable Accommodation Notice

Federal law requires employers to provide reasonable accommodation to qualified
individuals with disabilities. Please tell us if you require a reasonable
accommodation to apply for a job or to perform your job. Examples of reasonable
accommodation include making a change to the application process or work
procedures, providing documents in an alternate format, using a sign language
interpreter, or using specialized equipment.

^1Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. For more
information about this form or the equal employment obligations of Federal
contractors, visit the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Federal Contract
Compliance Programs (OFCCP) website at www.dol.gov/ofccp.

PUBLIC BURDEN STATEMENT: According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 no
persons are required to respond to a collection of information unless such
collection displays a valid OMB control number. This survey should take about 5
minutes to complete.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Application consent for Planet

By clicking the ?I Accept? button you expressly make the following
representations and warranties and give your consents as described below:

Planet collects your personal data for the purposes of managing Planet?s
recruitment related activities as well as for organizational planning purposes
globally. Consequently, Planet may use your personal data in relation to the
evaluation and selection of applicants including for example setting up and
conducting interviews and tests, evaluating and assessing the results thereto
and as is otherwise needed in the recruitment processes including the final
recruitment.

Planet does not disclose your personal data to unauthorized third parties.
However, as a global corporation consisting of multiple affiliated companies in
various countries, Planet has international sites and Planet uses resources
located throughout the world. Planet may from time to time also use third
parties to act on Planet?s behalf. You agree to the fact that to the extent
necessary your personal data may be transferred and/or disclosed to any company
within Planet group of companies as well as to third parties acting on Planet?s
behalf, including also transfers to servers and databases outside the country
where you provided Planet with your personal data. Such transfers may include
for example transfers and/or disclosures outside the European Economic Area and
in the United States of America.

[ ]  I Accept
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Submit Application]
Share this job:  
Powered by  Greenhouse Logo
Read our Privacy Policy
