Workplace Alaskalogo image
Menu
Close Menu
Workplace Alaskalogo image

Workplace Alaska

  * Workplace Alaska Hotline
  * for All Job Seekers
  * for State Employees
  * for Students
  * Class Specifications
  * Sign Up for Job Alerts
  * State of Alaska Applicant Help Guide
  * Help & Support

for All Job Seekers

Sign In
Username

  * 
  * Applications
  * Profile
  * Account
  * Sign Out

Welcome!

Thanks for creating an account.

Workplace Alaskalogo image

Workplace Alaska

powered by NEOGOV ?

Research Analyst III (06-0534)

Print
Apply

Research Analyst III (06-0534)

Salary
    $4,778.00 Monthly $4,778.00 Monthly

Location
    Anchorage, AK Anchorage, AK

Job Type
    Full Time

Department
    Health & Social Services

Job Number
    13026

Closing
    1/17/2017 5:00 PM Alaska

  * Description
  * Benefits

Job Description


    This individual position is EXEMPT from the hiring restrictions.
    Qualified applicants are encouraged to apply.

    This recruitment is open to Alaska Residents Only
    This position is in the General Government Union and is at a Range 18

     
    [Header_SDS]
     
    The Department of Health and Social Services, Governor's Council on
    Disabilities and Special Education is recruiting for a
    Research Analyst III position
     

    Under the general direction of the Planner III, this position is
    responsible for research, analysis and reporting on issues related to the
    provision of services to Alaskans with developmental and intellectual
    disabilities.   
     
    The RA III plans, organizes, and directs statistical reporting, analysis,
    and research activities of the agency. The RA III performs difficult and
    technical research work, which may include the development and maintenance
    of statewide statistical information for the Council. The individual is
    responsible for all research, analysis, and statistical reporting of the
    Council, serves as staff advisor to management on budgetary, policy, or
    legislative implications of studies/findings. This position contains the
    most complex and difficult research projects; studies are frequently of
    broad scope and/or significant social, economic, or political importance;
    and position may serve as working leader over others.
     
    PCN 06-0534 is responsible for performing duties associated with the
    development, implementation, and monitoring of issues affecting Alaskans
    with developmental and/or other severe disabilities. A large portion of the
    incumbent's time is spent designing, conducting, analyzing, and reporting
    on in-depth research studies to provide timely, accurate data for planning
    purposes. PCN 06-0534 gathers and analyzes a wide variety of social,
    health, economic, and sociocultural data using a variety of statistical and
    qualitative techniques, conducts a variety of special independent research
    projects, and identifies research issues related to developmental
    disabilities services.
     
    PCN 06-0534 reviews current data from other states and compares the service
    delivery strategies with those of Alaska, develops primary and secondary
    data sources, conducts database and literature research, prepares research
    reports, and develops recommendations. Findings are applied to planning,
    program evaluation, and budget deliberations and are presented to the
    Council and the public.
     
    The incumbent monitors the progress of the five-year State Plan and
    evaluates the implementation of projects and initiatives and other related
    planning initiatives, manages staff deadlines, identifies barriers to
    implementation, and recommends solutions. PCN 06-0534 serves as a liaison
    between the Council and other entities conducting systems change, capacity
    building, systems planning and research activities; and maintains contact
    with national, regional and local disability agencies and organizations to
    remain aware of state-of-the-art research and to disseminate research
    information.
     
    Developmental and Other Disabilities Research:
     
      + Designs, conducts, analyzes, and reports on in-depth research studies
        to provide timely, accurate data for planning purposes.
      + Addresses planning, plan implementation, and program evaluation issues
        and questions from the Council and the public.
      + Gathers and analyzes a wide variety of social, health, economic, and
        sociocultural data using a variety of statistical techniques using
        multivariate statistical analysis.
      + Conducts a variety of special independent research projects to
        establish the efficacy of services delivery approaches in the state to
        develop recommendations to be incorporated into the planning process.
      + Identifies research issues related to developmental disabilities and/or
        severe disabilities services; prepares research designs that may
        require the development of a variety of types of data collection
        instruments and the collection of primary research data such as
        telephone surveys and the analysis of mailed questionnaires.
      + Reviews current data from other states and compares the service
        delivery strategies of other states with those of Alaska.
      + Develops primary and secondary data sources and conducts database and
        literature research.
      + Uses management information systems to collect and analyze program data
        and reviews the data to make recommendations to the Council on both the
        quality and efficacy of programs in the state.
      + Prepares research reports and develops recommendations. Findings are
        applied to planning, program evaluation and budget deliberations and
        are presented to the Council and the public.
      + Serves as main staff for the Developmental Disabilities committee,
        Medicaid ad hoc, By-Laws ad hoc, and the fetal alcohol spectrum
        disorders (FASD) Workgroup.
    These require significant experience in program planning and coordination
    in the areas of IDD service delivery, housing Medicaid, and fetal alcohol
    spectrum disorders. The incumbent attends many workgroups, committees, and
    meetings as the Council representative on these issues involving high-level
    officials and assists partner agencies in their own program planning where
    it involves people with developmental disabilities.
     
    Research Coordination
      + Serves as liaison between the Council and other entities conducting
        systems change, capacity building, systems planning and research
        activities.
      + Staff and researches support tasks including providing support to
        Council committees and subcommittees and task forces.
      + Maintains contact with national, regional and local disability agencies
        and organizations to remain aware of state-of-the-art research and to
        disseminate research information. Reviews other state and federal
        research documents.
      + Acts as liaison with the management information staff of relevant state
        agencies to retrieve information valuable to research activities and
        the planning process.
      + Monitors regular program reports that quantify program activity.
      + Attends MIS meetings with program providers.
     
    Planning Implementation: Monitors progress of five-year State Plan and
    evaluates the implementation of Trust-funded projects and initiatives and
    other related planning initiatives. Identifies barriers to implementation
    and recommends solutions. Identifies service delivery systems impact;
    provides information to update ongoing plans and projects; develops new
    recommendations and plans; and prepares proposals and applications for
    other resources.
     
    Budget:  Assists the Council in the development of budgets and budget
    recommendations to the Alaska Mental Health Trust Authority by utilizing
    demographic data, outcome evaluations and quantitative program activity
    data in establishing the need for services. Gathers and reports information
    on the cost effectiveness of current systems and proposed systems change.
     
    Analysis: PCN 06-0534 provides research and planning support to standing
    and ad hoc Council committees and to Council staff. This requires the
    incumbent to design, conduct, analyze, and report on in-depth research
    studies; monitor and provide recommendations of the five-year State Plan;
    and conduct independent research, program reviews, and needs assessments.
    These duties exceed the definition of a Research Analyst III, in that the
    incumbent is performing difficult and complex research focusing on Alaskans
    with developmental disabilities and directing, planning, and implementing
    all research activities for the agency.
     
    Occasional duties: Develops legislative briefings on disability issues;
    disseminates information to professionals, public, legislature and governor
    and responds to information requests from the public and other entities.
    Prepares Requests for Proposals (RPFs) for occasional contract services,
    review responses and make recommendations. May participate in proposal
    review committees for the Division of Mental Health & Developmental
    Disabilities and other agencies. Also including:
      + Letters of support on behalf of the Council (as needed)
      + Department of Health and Social Services' proposed regulations (as
        needed)
          o Summary of the proposed regulations impact on individuals with
            disabilities and their families
          o Convene stakeholder and Council member workgroups to discuss the
            proposed regulations and the Council's comment
          o Prepare the Council's draft comment
          o Finalize Council's draft comment with the Executive Committee
          o Send Council's comment to proposed regulation contact
      + Program Performance Report (PPR)
          o Stakeholder and Consumer Satisfaction Survey (November and
            December, annually)
          o Narrative and data collection from staff
          o Overall organization of report and editing
          o Other sections as assigned
      + Committee staffing (duties include work plan development, Council
        meeting PowerPoint presentation development with chair, work plan
        activities, monthly agenda development, meeting document preparation,
        preparation of other materials and committee correspondence, meeting
        document dissemination) for:
          o Developmental Disabilities (staff)
          o Medicaid Ad Hoc (staff)
          o FASD Workgroup (staff)
          o By-Laws Workgroup (staff)
      + Analysis of Governor's proposed budget (December, annually)
      + Prepare Trust Mental Health Trust Authority Authorized Receipts
        (MHTAAR) Status Report (due October 15, annually)
      + Management of Council website, Facebook, twitter accounts, radio ads/
        public service announcements, and overall social media plan
      + Editing/proofing/quality assurance of Council documents (as needed)
      + Writing and publishing GCDSE annual report
      + Meeting backup if ED or planner cannot attend (as needed)
      + Program evaluation for committees (as needed):
          o Department of Health and Social Services (DHSS)
          o Alaska Mental Health Trust Authority (AMHTA)
          o Alaska Housing Finance Corporation (AHFC)
          o Senior & Disabilities Services (SDS Medicaid)
      + AMHTA Request for Recommendations process (every two years)
          o Historically, this has involved a survey being disseminated to our
            stakeholders soliciting recommendations for funding
          o The Research Analyst compiles these recommendations for review by
            the Executive Committee
          o If approved by the Executive Committee, the project is imputed into
            the AMHTA's grant reporting portal
              # The Research Analyst assists with developing the data component
                (current status, desired results) of the projects approved by
                the Executive Committee
      + Council meeting preparation and administration (annually in January,
        October, and May)
      + Assist Executive Director:
          o Assist with any data component in presentations to the AMHTA
            Trustees (annually in September, November, January, May)
              # Includes beneficiary status, project outcomes, etc.
          o Assist with data component in the Budget Overview Book preparations
            (annually in November)
     
    PCN 06-0534 directs the reporting, analysis, and research activities of the
    entire Council. The incumbent also serves as the Medicaid and housing
    expert for the Council and conducts significant duties for the Planner III.
     
    Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs)
     
      + Knowledge of research methods, procedures, techniques and terminology
        used in the more complex aspects of research projects; statistical
        theory and techniques; current economic and social theory, principles
        and problems; agency's purposes, objectives, programs and activities;
        sources of appropriate information.
      + Ability to gather, compile and analyze research data and present
        reports and summaries in written, tabular and graphic form; maintain
        statewide statistical information in a particular field and develop
        appropriate reporting procedures; analyze situations accurately and
        adopt an effective course of actions; direct and coordinate the work
        others; work with a high degree of independence
      + Evaluation of programs for persons with disabilities.
      + Working knowledge of social, cultural, health, economic and demographic
        characteristics of people with disabilities.
      + Working knowledge of techniques of community development and group
        facilitation.
      + Ability to coordinate effectively with a variety of stakeholders
        including other state agency officials, service providers and the
        general public.
      + Ability to understand and apply program statutes, regulations,
        policies, procedures, and similar standards and guidelines.
      + Ability to communicate effectively, both orally and in writing, and
        convey technical terms and information to the general public.
     
     

    To view the general description and example duties for a
    Research Analyst III please go to the following link:
    https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/Alaska/classspecs

Minimum Qualifications

    Graduation from an accredited college.
    AND
    Two years of research and/or statistical analysis experience; with at least
    one year at the level of Research Analyst II with the State of Alaska or
    the equivalent.

    Substitution:
    Research or statistical analysis experience may substitute for the required
    education (3 semester or four quarter hours equals one month); graduate
    study may substitute for the required experience (2 semester or 3 quarter
    hours equals one month).

    Special Note:
    Transcripts which indicate the credit hours earned for the specific
    coursework may be requested at the time of interview or prior.

    Desirable: Major course work in an academic field closely related to the
    research area assigned.

Additional Required Information

    At time of application, applicant must attach the following items. (If
    unable to attach, please fax or e-mail the items to the contact listed
    below prior to the closing date of this recruitment):
     1. A copy of academic transcripts, to verify post-secondary education used
        to meet the minimum qualifications.  Transcripts are required with each
        application. (Unofficial are okay, provided that the transcripts list
        the institution name).
     2. Cover letter.
    At time of interview applicant must provide the following:
     1. Resume
     2. Three (3) professional references
     3. Professional writing sample, preferably research related
     
    Please read the below information carefully. This applies to your
    application submission.

    COVER LETTER
    A cover letter is required. Please attach it as a separate document for
    this position. The cover letter should highlight your knowledge, skills,
    abilities, and experience as they pertain to the responsibilities listed in
    the job description above. Please attach the cover letter to your
    application before submitting it online or, if unable to attach to your
    application, fax it to the contact number provided in the job posting prior
    to the closing date of this recruitment.  The cover letter will be used as
    a writing sample and to help determine which applicants will advance to the
    interview phase of the recruitment and selection process.

    EDUCATION
    To verify education to meet the required minimum qualifications, you must
    fill in the Education section of the application. When a degree has not
    been received, please indicate the number of units completed. Copies of
    transcripts are required to verify educational credentials for this
    position.  Transcripts must be attached at the time of application.

    SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR FOREIGN EDUCATION
    Education completed in foreign colleges or universities may be used to meet
    the above requirements, when applicable. When utilizing this education you
    must show that the education credentials have been submitted to a private
    organization that specializes in interpretation of foreign educational
    credentials and that such education has been deemed to be at least
    equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education programs; or an
    accredited U.S. state university reports the other institution as one whose
    transcript is given full value, or full value is given in subject areas
    applicable to the curricula at the state university. It is your
    responsibility to provide such evidence when applying.

    WORK EXPERIENCE
    When using work experience not already documented in your application,
    please provide the employer name, your job title, dates of employment, and
    whether full-or part-time. Applications will be reviewed to determine if
    the responses are supported and minimum qualifications are clearly met. If
    they are not, the applicant may not advance to the interview and selection
    phase of the recruitment. NOTE: Attaching a resume is not an alternative to
    filling out the application in its entirety. Noting "see resume" or any
    similar response on any portion of your application may lead to a
    determination your application is incomplete and removal from consideration
    for this job posting.

    MULTIPLE VACANCIES
    This recruitment may be used for more than one (1) vacancy. The applicant
    pool acquired during this recruitment may be used for future vacancies for
    up to ninety (90) days after this recruitment closes. Interested applicants
    are encouraged to apply to each recruitment notice to ensure consideration
    for all vacancies.

    NOTICE
    Questions regarding the application process can be directed to the
    Workplace Alaska hotline at 800-587-0430 (toll free) or (907) 465- 4095. If
    you choose to be contacted by email, please ensure your email address is
    correct on your application and that the spam filter will permit email from
    the 'govermentjobs.com' domains.  For information on allowing emails from
    the 'governmentjobs.com' domains, visit the Lost Password Help page located
    at https://www.governmentjobs.com/js_lostpswd.cfm&topheader=alaska.
     
    EEO STATEMENT
    The State of Alaska complies with Title I of the Americans with
    Disabilities Act (ADA).Individuals with disabilities, who require
    accommodation, auxiliary aides or services, or alternative communication
    formats, please call 1-800-587-0430 or 465-4095 in Juneau or (907) 465-3412
    (TTY) or correspond with the Division of Personnel & Labor Relations at: P.
    O. Box 110201, Juneau, AK 99811-0201. The State of Alaska is an equal
    opportunity employer.

Contact Information

    WORKPLACE ALASKA APPLICATION QUESTIONS & ASSISTANCE
    Questions regarding application submission or system operation errors
    should be directed to the Workplace Alaska hotline at 1-800-587-0430 (toll
    free) or (907) 465-4095 if you are located in the Juneau area. Requests for
    information may also be emailed to recruitment.services@alaska.gov.

    For applicant password assistance please visit: https://
    www.governmentjobs.com/js_lostpswd.cfm?&topheader=alaska

    For specific information in reference to the position please contact the
    hiring manager at:

    Name:  Barbara Allen, Administrative Assistant II
    Phone: (907) 269-8993
    Fax: (907) 269-8995
    Email: Barbara.Allen@alaska.gov

    [AK-State-S]
    Careers with the State of Alaska offer MANY benefits

    The following information describes typical benefits available to employees
    of the State of Alaska. Actual benefits received may differ by bargaining
    unit or branch of government, position type, or be prorated for other than
    full time work.

    Insurance Benefits
      + Health insurance, which includes employer contributions toward medical/
        vision/dental
          o The following employee groups are under AlaskaCare Benefits
            administered by the State:   See http://doa.alaska.gov/drb/programs
            /index.html for additional information.
              # AVTEC
              # Confidential
              # Correctional Officers
              # Marine Engineers
              # Mt. Edgecumbe Teachers
              # Supervisory
              # Unlicensed Vessel Personnel/Inland Boatman?s Union
              # Exempt employees (not covered by collective bargaining)
          o The following employee groups are covered by Union health trusts. 
            Contact the appropriate Union for additional information.
              # General Government
              # Labor, Trades and Crafts
              # Public Safety Employees Association
              # Masters, Mates & Pilots
      + Employer paid Basic Life insurance with additional coverage available
        (amount depends on Bargaining Unit)
    Optional Insurance Benefits
      + Group-based insurance premiums for
          o Term life (employee, spouse or qualified same sex partner, and
            dependents)
          o Long-term and short-term disability
          o Accidental Death and Dismemberment
          o Long-term care (self and eligible family members)
          o Supplemental Survivor Benefits
      + Employee-funded flexible spending accounts for tax savings on eligible
        health care or dependent care expenses

    Retirement Benefits
      + Membership in the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS)/Teachers?
        Retirement System (TRS)
      + Matching employer contribution into a defined contribution program (new
        employees)
      + Employer contribution into a defined benefit or defined contribution
        program (current employees)
      + Contributions to the Alaska Supplemental Annuity Plan in lieu of
        contributions to Social Security
      + Option to enroll in the Alaska Deferred Compensation Program
      + Note:  The Defined Contribution Plan, Supplemental Annuity Plan and
        Deferred Compensation Program offer a variety of investment options
    See http://doa.alaska.gov/drb/retirement/index.html for additional
    information
     
    Paid Leave & Other Benefits
      + Personal leave with an accrual rate increase based on time served
      + Eleven paid holidays a year
      + Gym discounts at participating fitness providers in multiple locations
        throughout the state.

    See http://doa.alaska.gov/drb/ghlb/employee/health/gymListing.html for
    additional information

Agency
    State of Alaska

Address

    PO Box 110201

    Juneau, Alaska, 99811.

Phone
    (800) 587-0430 (Statewide toll-free number)
    (907) 465-4095 (Juneau and out-of-state callers)

Website
    http://workplace.alaska.gov/

Apply
Your browser does not support the IFRAME feature, which is required by this web
page.
for All Job Seekers
Account
Copyright ? 2017
[Workplace-]

Workplace Alaska

for All Job Seekers

Support
Workplace Alaska
Job Application
Job Details
Applying as: | Support
Close
Close
