Senior Research Investigator, HIV and AIDS Program

Job Title: Senior Research Investigator, HIV and AIDS Program

Job Type:  Full-Time

Location:  New York, NY

                           [Submit Your Application]
                              [Send to a Friend]
                            [Printer Friendly Page]
 
Job Description:

TITLE: Sr. Research Investigator

REPORTING TO: Scientist II

LOCATION: New York, NY

JOBS SUPERVISED: N/A

ASSIGNMENT LENGTH: Approximately nine months, renewable by
mutual consent and the availability of funds

*A STRONG CANDIDATE HAS BEEN IDENTIFIED FOR THIS POSITION*

POSITION SUMMARY: The Senior Research Investigator will be
responsible of planning and executing studies on HIV biology,
transmission and pathogenesis. The Investigator will have to be
up-to-date with current immunological and HIV research and learn
and apply novel methodologies. She/he will plan, coordinate and
execute in vitro, ex vivo and in vivo studies with non-human
primates and will have to interpret the data and propose new
areas of investigation based on the her/his own findings. The
investigator will work closely with Dr Martinelli and her
collaborators, as well as other scientists and investigators at
the CBR to help advancing the scope and the research done at
CBR.


RESPONSIBILITIES:

1. Plan and coordinate in vivo studies focused on understanding
the role of a4b7 in HIV transmission and pathogenesis
2. Process samples from non-human primates from the in vivo
studies and perform immunological and virological assays on
those samples
3. Analyze and interpret data and present them at internal and
external meetings
4. Follow the scientific literature and propose innovative
questions and areas of research
5. Help writing scientific papers, grant reports and grant
proposals


QUALIFICATIONS:
1. PhD or MD
2. At least 3 years of relevant biomedical experience
3. Extensive experience in immunology and HIV biology
4. Excellent organizational and collaborative skills
5. Demonstrated ability to maintain project timelines
6. Computer and statistical literacy
7. Excellent written and oral English language and communication
skills


The Population Council is an international, nonprofit,
nongovernmental institution that seeks to improve the well-being
and reproductive health of current and future generations around
the world and to help achieve a humane, equitable, and
sustainable balance between people and resources. The Council
conducts biomedical, social science, and public health research
and helps build research capacities in developing countries.
Established in 1952, the Council is governed by an international
board of trustees. Its New York headquarters supports a global
network of country offices. We are seeking an individual to fill
the position described. If you know of a qualified candidate or
are interested in this position, please apply at: http://
www.popcouncil.org/careers

The Population Council provides equal opportunity; it does not
discriminate against any person with regard to age, color,
creed, national origin, disability, political belief, veteran
status, religion, marital status, gender, gender identity, or
sexual orientation. Decisions on employment are based on an
individual’s qualifications as related to the position for which
s/he is being considered. The Council especially encourages
applications from qualified women and members of minority
groups. The Population Council is international in the
composition of its board of trustees and its staff, as well as
in the nature and deployment of its activities.

                   Powered By:Ceridian Recruiting Solutions
