Univera HealthCare logo

      Browse Open Jobs | Search Open Jobs | Edit Your Profile | View Submitted
                                    Applications
[s]                                                                               [s]

    Job Details


    
    
    Requisition Number    16-1299
    Post Date             11/21/2016
    Title                 Data Scientist I/II/III/IV/V
    Job Type              Full Time
    City                  Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, Utica
    State                 NY
    Description           Data Scientists are responsible for modeling complex
                          business problems, discovering new business insights
                          and finding opportunities through the use of
                          algorithmic, statistical, data-mining and
                          visualization techniques. In addition, this role
                          also integrates and prepares large, varied datasets
                          and designs and builds specialized databases and
                          computing environments (data architecture).
                          Incumbents must have the ability to communicate and
                          present results of their research in a structured
                          and clear way that can be easily understood by
                          various business stakeholders and clients.
                          Ultimately, Data Scientists work closely with
                          various stakeholders across the Corporation to turn
                          data into meaningful insights that is then used to
                          make sound business decisions.

                          Essential Responsibilities/Accountabilities
                          Level I
                          ? Works under general supervision to design
                          experiments, test hypotheses, model moderately
                          complex business problems, discover business
                          insights and identify opportunities through the use
                          of statistical, algorithmic, mining and
                          visualization techniques.

                          Business Requirements
                          ? Identifies business requirements and anticipated
                          outcomes by working with company stakeholders.
                          ? Works with business analysts to suggest other
                          possible products of interest to the client.
                          ? Models and frames business scenarios that are
                          meaningful and have impact on critical business
                          processes and/or decisions.

                          Data Requirements
                          ? Selects pertinent and relevant sources of
                          information in collaboration with company subject
                          matter experts (SMEs).

                          Analysis
                          ? Assists in solving client/stakeholder analytics
                          problems and documents results and methodologies.
                          ? Works in iterative processes within IT and
                          validates findings.
                          ? Validates findings and tests hypotheses through
                          performance of experimental design approaches.
                          ? Discovers patterns through the employment of
                          appropriate algorithms.
                          ? Validates analysis by comparing appropriate
                          samples.

                          Qualification and Assurance
                          ? Uses the expected assurance and qualification of
                          information to quantify the accuracy metrics of
                          analysis.

                          Access Management and Control
                          ? Authorizes and qualifies where information can be
                          stored and what information, external to the
                          organization, may be used in support of various
                          projects and initiatives.

                          Quantification
                          ? Assesses the volume of data supporting projects
                          and initiatives, the type of data (i.e. text,
                          images, clickstream or metering data) and the speed
                          or sudden variations in data collection.

                          Policies, Standards and Procedures
                          ? Collaborates with the IT Division and other
                          discipline areas in the Analytics and Data Division
                          to ensure that information used follows the
                          compliance, access/security management, and control
                          policies and that it meets the qualification and
                          assurance requirements of the Corporation.
                          ? Recommends ongoing improvements to methods and
                          algorithms that lead to findings, including new
                          information.

                          Communication and Presentations
                          ? Presents and illustrates the rationale of findings
                          in easy to understand terms for the business.
                          ? Presents results that contradict common belief, if
                          needed.
                          ? Communicates, collaborates and works with business
                          subject matter experts (SMEs).

                          Metrics
                          ? Provides relevant business metrics for projects to
                          substantiate and demonstrate improvements (project
                          outcomes should be monitored over time, through
                          project completion and beyond).

                          Performance
                          ? Monitors and tracks the performance of decision
                          systems and statistical models on an on-going basis.

                          Ethics and Compliance
                          ? Consistently demonstrates high standards of
                          integrity by supporting the Lifetime Healthcare
                          Companies? mission and values and adhering to the
                          Corporate Code of Conduct.
                          ? Maintains high regard for member privacy in
                          accordance with the corporate privacy policies and
                          procedures.
                          ? Regular reliable attendance is expected and
                          required.
                          ? Performs other functions as assigned by
                          management.


                          Level II - requires similar responsibilities as
                          level I, in addition to:
                          ? Works under general direction to design
                          experiments, test hypotheses model complex business
                          problems, discover business insights and identify
                          opportunities through the use of statistical,
                          algorithmic, mining and visualization techniques.

                          Data Requirements
                          ? Identifies and determines what data is available
                          and relevant, including both internal and external
                          data sources, leveraging new data collection
                          processes (such as smart meters, geo-location
                          information, social media, etc).
                          ? Works with various team in the IT Division to
                          support and enhance data collection, integration,
                          and retention requirements based on the input
                          collected with the project/initiative clients and
                          stakeholders.

                          Analysis
                          ? Solves client analytics problems and disseminates/
                          communicates results and methodologies.
                          ? Works in iterative processes with the IT, the
                          client and other stakeholders and validates
                          findings.
                          ? Validates findings and tests hypotheses through
                          the development of experimental design approaches.

                          Qualification and Assurance
                          ? Assesses, with stakeholders and clients, the
                          expected qualification and assurance of the
                          information in support of projects and initiatives.
                          ? Defines the validity of information, duration of
                          time that the information is meaningful, and what
                          other information it is related to.

                          Access Management and Control
                          ? Collaborates with the IT Division and other
                          discipline areas in the Analytics and Data Division
                          to ensure that the information used is in compliance
                          with ethical, regulatory and security policies in
                          place.

                          Quantification
                          ? Identifies and analyzes patterns in the volume of
                          data supporting projects and initiatives, the type
                          of data (i.e. text, images, clickstream or metering
                          data) and the speed or sudden variations in data
                          collection.

                          Policies, Standards and Procedures
                          ? Partners with the IT Division and other discipline
                          areas in the Analytics and Data Division to define
                          the data quality expectations in the context of
                          specific projects and initiatives.

                          Change Advocacy
                          ? Educates stakeholders and clients throughout the
                          Corporation both from Data and Analytics and the
                          business perspectives on new approaches, such as
                          testing hypotheses and statistical validation of
                          results.
                          ? Helps stakeholders and clients understand the
                          principles and the math behind Data and Analytics
                          processes to drive organizational buy-in.


                          Level III - requires similar responsibilities as
                          level II, in addition to:
                          ? Independently designs experiments, test
                          hypotheses, model highly complex business problems,
                          discover business insights and identify
                          opportunities through the use of statistical,
                          algorithmic, mining and visualization techniques.

                          Business Requirements
                          ? Leads the discovery process to identify business
                          requirements and anticipated outcomes, working with
                          company stakeholders.

                          Data Requirements
                          ? Offers strategic recommendations on data
                          collection, integration, and retention requirements
                          integrating knowledge of best practices and business
                          requirements.

                          Analysis
                          ? Develops effective and innovative approaches to
                          solve client?s analytics problems and disseminate/
                          communicate results and methodologies
                          ? Uses scenario modeling to validate analysis.
                          ? Identifies and creates appropriate algorithms to
                          discover patterns in various datasets.

                          Quantification
                          ? Utilizes patterns and variations in the volume,
                          speed and other characteristics of data, and the
                          type of data (i.e. text, images, clickstream or
                          metering data) in predictive analysis for projects
                          and initiatives.

                          Policies, Standards and Procedures
                          ? Develops usage and access control system and
                          policies in collaboration with the IT Division and
                          other discipline areas in the Analytics and Data
                          Division.
                          ? Partners with the IT Division and other discipline
                          areas in the Analytics and Data Division in
                          continuous improvement processes impacting data
                          quality for various project and initiatives.

                          Communication and Presentations
                          ? Communicates, collaborates and works with business
                          subject matter experts (SMEs) and organizational
                          leadership at all levels.
    Requirements          Level I
                          ? Bachelor?s Degree in Mathematics, Statistics,
                          Computer Science, Economics or related field and 3
                          years? of related work experience (i.e. business
                          intelligence, predictive analytics, data modeling
                          and mining, statistics, etc).
                          ? 1 year experience using databases and manipulating
                          large datasets.
                          ? 1 year experience with a general-purpose
                          programming language (Big data frameworks such as
                          Hadoop MapReduce, Java, others).
                          ? Experience in the use of statistical packages
                          (such as R or SAS).
                          ? Familiarity with basic principles of distributed
                          computing and databases.
                          ? Demonstrates the following scientific qualities in
                          work: significance, breadth, depth, clarity,
                          accuracy, precision, relevance, logic and fairness.
                          ? Demonstrable ability to quickly understand new
                          concepts and to come up with original solutions to
                          various mathematical issues.
                          ? Strong communication and interpersonal skills.

                          Level II ? requires similar qualifications as level
                          I, in addition to:
                          ? Masters Degree preferred.
                          ? 5 years of relevant analytics experience.
                          ? Strong knowledge of statistical techniques.
                          ? Strong technical and programming skills (Big data
                          frameworks such as Hadoop MapReduce, Java, others),
                          and statistical modeling (such as R or SAS).
                          ? Experience using machine learning algorithms.
                          ? Proficiency in the use of statistical software and
                          packages.
                          ? Proficiency in forecasting/predictive analytics,
                          quantitative analytics, statistical analysis,
                          multivariate testing, and optimization algorithms.

                          Level III ? requires similar qualifications as level
                          II, in addition to:
                          ? 8 years of relevant analytics experience.
                          ? High proficiency in the use of statistical
                          software and packages.
                          ? High proficiency in forecasting/predictive
                          analytics, quantitative analytics, statistical
                          analysis, multivariate testing, and optimization
                          algorithms.
                          ? In-depth healthcare industry/business knowledge.
                          ? Experience leading and guiding teams.


                          Physical Requirements
                          ? Ability to travel across regions.



                          In support of the Americans with Disabilities Act,
                          this job description lists only those
                          responsibilities and qualifications deemed essential
                          to the position.

                          Equal Opportunity Employer
      * We are an Equal Opportunity Employer.
      * Please view Equal Employment Opportunity Posters provided by OFCCP
        here.
      * We are an Equal Opportunity Employer, and as such affirm the right of
        every person to participate in all aspects of employment without
        regard to race, color, sex/gender, age, disability, religion, creed,
        citizenship status, national origin, veteran status, military status,
        marital status, familial status, domestic violence victim status,
        sexual orientation, gender identity, predisposing genetic
        characteristic, genetic information, or any other status protected
        under the law.
      * The contractor will not discharge or in any other manner discriminate
        against employees or applicants because they have inquired about,
        discussed, or disclosed their own pay or the pay of another employee
        or applicant. However, employees who have access to the compensation
        information of other employees or applicants as a part of their
        essential job functions cannot disclose the pay of other employees or
        applicants to individuals who do not otherwise have access to
        compensation information, unless the disclosure is (a) in response to
        a formal complaint or charge, (b) in furtherance of an investigation,
        proceeding, hearing, or action, including an investigation conducted
        by the employer, or (c) consistent with the contractor?s legal duty to
        furnish information.

                          Apply On-line
                          Send This Job to a Friend


[Footer_All]

