                                  [inAGzudAI]
[inAGzudAI]

Data Scientist

New York, NY (Corporate Office)

  • Apply
  • 
  • View All Jobs

Share This Job

Job Description

Founded in 1818 as a gentleman’s furnishings and haberdashery shop, Brooks
Brothers is America’s oldest clothier. For nearly 200 years the brand has
defined the standard of dress in America and has evolved into a global
lifestyle brand offering complete apparel and accessories collections for men,
women and children. Brooks Brothers products are world renowned for innovation,
quality, timeless style and exceptional value. As America's oldest clothing
retailer, Brooks Brothers has a long history of creating long-term
relationships with both our Customers and our Associates. With 280 stores
throughout the United States and Canada and more than 650 locations abroad, we
continue to grow the brand with a respect for our heritage and a vision for the
future.

The diversity of our operations has recently created an opportunity for a new 
Senior Analyst - CRM Advanced Analytics in our New York City offices.

We’re looking for an outstanding Senior Analyst - CRM Advanced Analytics to
join our CRM Marketing team. Develop and perform deep customer analytics, data
mining and statistical modeling to support Customer Relationship Management
(CRM) and other business needs.  Develop standard and ad-hoc analyses to answer
business questions and provide actionable insights.  Work closely with internal
teams to help drive strategy and program development.  Respond with accuracy
and urgency to solve business needs.  

Key Accountabilities

  • Manage and execute the process of design and delivery of CRM analytics
    projects:
      □ Develop customer segment-based metrics, goals and measurement as for
        customer lifecycle marketing programs
      □ Design and conduct testing recommendation to measure impact of CRM and
        marketing programs
      □ Create and manage standard post-campaign analysis reports/insights,
        custom store level reports and dashboards
  • Lead or collaborate with external resources to develop, interpret,
    implement and support various types of statistical modeling such as:
  • Customer segmentation and profiling and proactive behavior evaluation for
    target audiences
  • Propensity models for churn, retention, growth, product, offer and/or
    acquisition
  • Predictive modeling for best messaging, campaign response and lift
  • Access and analyze customer (transactional/time-series) data for on-going
    and ad-hoc analyses
  • Develop and update customer lifetime value model and scores
  • Maintain an active role in CRM database system, data quality and integrity
    and any related IT development project which engages the customer
  • Identify opportunities to improve analytical approaches and tools
  • Support CRM Manager, Sr. Manager, Credit and Loyalty and CIS Manager with
    cross-channel direct marketing campaigns and audience identification and
    selection
  • Identify opportunities to automate analytics and modeling to streamline the
    process and delivery of analytics, insights and/or model scores
  • Develop and report easily consumable, visualized dashboards of customer
    metrics for key stakeholders and executives with actionable insight
    call-outs

 

Skills & Requirements

Ideal Candidates Should Possess

  • Exceptional R, SAS and/or SQL skills
  • 14+ years R, SAS or SQL analytics experience with a proven track record in
    advanced analytics
  • 12+ years hands-on experience with CRM database systems.
  • 7+ years relevant experience in retail industries and/or comparable,
    consumer-driven industries
  • Expert in Excel including programming VBA Macros
  • Bachelor’s degree in Statistics, Finance, Marketing, Economics or related
    business degree; Masters preferred
  • Strong communication, critical thinking and project management skills
  • Recognized for analytical rigor and ability to identify actionable insights
    from ambiguous and sometimes limited information
  • Demonstrated ability to manage multiple complex analyses and relationships
  • Ability to develop effective communication, including presentation decks,
    frameworks and reports
  • Understanding of statistical analysis methods
  • Must be organized, detail oriented, flexible, and able to prioritize
    multiple projects with short deadlines

 

The Brooks Brothers culture is rooted in our values of relationships,
innovation, history, fairness and celebration and our vision to be the premiere
lifestyle destination for ladies and gentleman for every generation. We are
proud to offer our Associates a fulfilling work environment, unique and special
benefits and a wide range of opportunities for personal and professional
development.

Additionally, Brooks Brothers offers competitive compensation, excellent
benefits and a positive work environment designed around the philosophy of
mutual respect and the challenge of contributing to the continued success of
our organization.

We invite you to submit your resume for immediate consideration.

Best Regards,

The Talent Acquisition Team of Brooks Brothers

 

We are an equal opportunity employer.

We are committed to a healthy and safe workplace for all.
 
 

#LI-AC1P

  • Apply
  • 
  • View All Jobs

CAREER OPPORTUNITIES

As America's oldest clothing retailer, Brooks Brothers has a long history of
creating long-term relationships with both our customers and our Associates.
With more than 200 stores throughout the United States and Canada and more than
130 locations abroad, we continue to grow the brand with a respect for our
heritage and a vision for the future.

The diversity of our operations creates many opportunities, ranging from
careers in our stores and manufacturing facilities to positions in our New York
headquarters and Enfield, CT support center. The Brooks Brothers culture is
rooted in our VALUES of relationships, innovation, history, fairness and
celebration and our vision to be the premiere lifestyle destination for ladies
and gentleman for every generation. We are proud to offer our Associates a
fulfilling work environment, unique and special benefits and a wide range of
opportunities for personal and professional growth.

Brooks Brothers offers exciting opportunities that will challenge your
abilities, expand your skills and reward your contributions in an atmosphere
that encourages both personal and professional growth for all.

Additionally, Brooks Brothers offers competitive compensation, excellent
benefits, and a positive work environment designed around the philosophy of
mutual respect and the challenge of contributing to the continued success of
our organization.

Powered by Hirebridge
