U.S. flag

An official website of the United States government

 

  •   
      □ Home
      □ Profile
      □ Documents
      □ Username & Password
      □ Sign Out
  • Help
  • Search

Keywords [                    ]
Location [                    ] 
Search
Create an account to get started — build your profile, create or upload resumes
and apply for jobs.
Back to Search results

Physical Scientist

Federal Aviation Administration

Agency contact information

  •  1 vacancy - Washington DC, DC

Work Schedule is Full Time - Permanent

Opened Friday 12/30/2016 (11 day(s) ago)

Closes Friday 1/13/2017 (3 day(s) away)

  • Salary Range

    $51,515.00 to $79,849.00 / The salary range listed is basic pay only. It
    does not include locality rate as the salary is subject to change effective
    January 8, 2017.
  • Series & Grade

    FV-1301-H/H
  • Supervisory Status

    No

  • Who May Apply

    U.S. Citizens
  • Control Number

    461163300
  • Job Announcement Number

    AWA-AVP-17-0032MP-51628

Apply
Print
Share

  • Email
  • Facebook
  • Google+
  • LinkedIn
  • Twitter
  • Shorten link

Save
Job Overview

Job Overview

Summary

About the Agency

Business Component:

Associate Administrator for Aviation Safety (AVS), Office of Accident
Investigation and Prevention, Safety Analytical Services Division, Safety
Analysis Branch, (AVP-210)

Duties

The incumbent serves as a physical scientist within the Safety Analytical
Services Division. The incumbent works under the limited direction of a
manager, project/program manager, team leader, or more experienced technical
specialist. The incumbent may act as an individual contributor and/or member of
a team. She/he may perform some leadership functions for small projects/
programs/teams. The incumbent is responsible for conducting research and
analysis in support of Aviation Safety (AVS) initiatives.

The incumbent applies experience and detailed technical knowledge applicable to
statistical research methods and techniques (e.g. modeling, programming,
applied statistics, decision analysis, and data visualization) in support of
the mission of the Office of Accident Investigation and Prevention and other
key AVS supported initiatives. The incumbent coordinates and executes segments
of major analyses and program development activities of the Office of Accident
Investigation and Prevention, FAA Aviation Safety Information Analysis and
Sharing (ASIAS), General Aviation Joint Steering Committee (GAJSC), and
Commercial Aviation Safety Team (CAST). These groups may consist of FAA staff
members, representatives of domestic and international airlines, manufacturers,
employee groups, air traffic organizations, and others in the worldwide
aviation community.

The incumbent may perform additional duties for the aviation safety mission, as
assigned.

Relocation Authorized

  • No

Job Requirements

Job Requirements

Key Requirements

  • US Citizenship is required.
  • Selective Service Registration is required for males born after 12/31/1959.
  • See Required Documents for requirements.
  • Unofficial/official transcripts may be required.
  • Must be able to obtain and retain a government travel charge card.
  • At least 10% travel may be required.

Qualifications

In addition to meeting the basic educational requirements below, to qualify for
this position, you must demonstrate in your application that you possess at
least one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the FV-G or FG/
GS-5/7/9 in the Federal Service. Specialized experience is experience that has
equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform
successfully the duties of the position.

Specialized experience is defined as experience in working across multiple
disciplines in order to conduct research and analyses and the ability to
communicate results to diverse audiences.

Qualifications must be met by the closing date of this vacancy announcement.

EDUCATION:

Basic Requirements:

 1. Degree: physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24
    semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such
    as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics.

or

 1. Combination of education and experience -- education equivalent to one of
    the majors shown in A above that included at least 24 semester hours in
    physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate
    experience or additional education.

This position has a positive education requirement. If you are not currently
working for the Federal Government in the 1300 (Physical Science) series OR
have never held a position in the Federal Government in the 1300 (Physical
Science) series, you must submit a copy of your transcripts prior to the
closing date of this announcement. FAILURE TO DO SO WILL RESULT IN LOSS OF
CONSIDERATION. IF SELECTED, OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS WILL BE REQUIRED PRIOR TO
EMPLOYMENT.

We are not accepting applications from noncitizens.

Security Clearance

Public Trust - Background Investigation

Additional Information

Additional Information

What To Expect Next

Candidates for FAA positions are evaluated using our Automated Vacancy
Information Access Tool for Online Referral (AVIATOR) system. AVIATOR compares
your skills and experience as described in your application with the
requirements of the position. If you are found to be an eligible,
highly-qualified candidate, you will be referred to the selecting official for
further consideration. (In some cases, individuals with priority for special
consideration must be considered and selected before other candidates.) Whether
or not you are contacted for an interview depends upon the location of the
position and the judgment of the selecting official.

Important - If you make any change to your application, you must resubmit it.
If you change your application and do not resubmit it, your changes will not be
considered part of your application package, and your previous application will
be considered.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
FAA is an Equal Opportunity Employer

All qualified applicants will be considered regardless of political
affiliation, race, color, religion, national origin, gender, sexual
orientation, marital status, age, disability, or other non-merit factors. DOT
provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities. If you need
a reasonable accommodation for any part of the application and hiring process,
please notify us. Decisions on granting reasonable accommodation will be made
on a case-by-case basis. Additional information on reasonable accommodations
procedures or on EEO Programs is available on Office of Civil Rights (ACR) or
by contacting the local FAA Civil Rights Office.


BENEFITS

Review our benefits


Other Information

We may use this vacancy to fill other similar vacant positions.
Travel may be required.
Position may be subject to a background investigation.
A one-year probationary period may be required.
The person selected for this position may be required to file a financial
disclosure statement within 30 days of entry on duty. FAA policy limits certain
outside employment and financial investments in aviation-related companies.


NOTES:

1. As a part of the Federal-Wide Hiring Reform Initiative (streamlining the
hiring process), the FAA is committed to eliminating the use of the Knowledge,
Skills and Ability (KSA) narratives from the initial application in the hiring
process for all announcements. Therefore, as an applicant for this
announcement, you are NOT required to provide a narrative response in the text
box listed below each KSA.

In lieu of providing a KSA narrative response in the text box listed below each
KSA in your work history, please include information that provides specific
examples of how you meet the response level or answer you chose for each KSA.
Your work history examples should be specific and clearly reflect the highest
level of ability. Your KSA answers will be evaluated further to validate
whether the level that you selected is appropriate based on the work history
and experience you provided. Your answers may be adjusted by a human resource
specialist as appropriate.

2.Eligible applicants meeting the minimum qualification requirements and
selective factor(s), if applicable, may be further evaluated on the Knowledge,
Skills and Abilities (KSA) listed in the announcement. Based on this
evaluation, applicants will be placed in one of the following categories: score
order, category grouping, or priority grouping and referred to the selecting
official for consideration.

3. This position is covered by the FAA Core Compensation plan. Additional
information about core compensation is available on the following website:
http://jobs.faa.gov/FAACoreCompensation.htm.

4. AFSCME Bargaining Unit Statement: Article 42, Section 13 says "If the
selecting official decides to interview any employee on the selection list for
a vacancy, then all who remain under consideration for the position at that
point in the process must be interviewed. If the selection list is shortened to
a best qualified list through a comparative process, then the best qualified
list shall be considered to be the selection list. If it is determined that
interviews are required and telephone interviews are not utilized, travel
expenses incidental to these interviews will be paid in accordance with the
Agency's travel regulations and this Agreement."

5. This vacancy is also being advertised under AWA-AVP-17-0032MP-51617, as
Current or Former Federal Employees & EVHO. Please check both vacancies to
determine if you are eligible to apply.

6. This position cannot be worked remotely.


This is a bargaining unit position.

Links to Important Information: Locality Pay , COLA

This job originated on www.usajobs.gov. For the full announcement and to apply,
visit www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/461163300. Only resumes submitted
according to the instructions on the job announcement listed at www.usajobs.gov
will be considered.

How to Apply

How to Apply

You must apply online to receive consideration. Your application must have a
status of "Received" by 11:59 PM Eastern Time on the Close Date for it to be
accepted. If you are applying for positions associated with FAA registers, your
application must have a status of "Received" each time a referral list is
created in order to receive consideration for positions associated with
register.

IN DESCRIBING YOUR WORK EXPERIENCE AND/OR EDUCATION, PLEASE BE CLEAR AND
SPECIFIC REGARDING YOUR EXPERIENCE OR EDUCATION.

We strongly encourage applicants to utilize the USAJOBS resume builder in the
creation of resumes.

Please ensure EACH work history includes ALL of the following information:

  • Job Title (include series and grade if Federal Job)
  • Duties (be specific in describing your duties)
  • Employer's name and address
  • Supervisor name and phone number
  • Start and end dates including month, day and year (e.g. June 18 2007 to
    April 05 2008)
  • Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
  • Salary


Determining length of General or Specialized Experience is dependent on the
above information and failure to provide ALL of this information may result in
a finding of ineligible.

You may upload completed documents to your USAJOBS Account. This will provide
you the opportunity to utilize the uploaded information again when applying for
future vacancies. Please see this guide, Document Upload Guide, for more
information on uploading and re-using the documents in your applications.

Forms:

  • SF-15  : Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference

How You Will Be Evaluated



IMPORTANT: Applicants may be rated on the extent and quality of experience,
education, and training relevant to the duties of the position(s). All answers
provided in the on-line process must be substantiated. Ensure that your
application package/resume supports your responses.

To preview the application questionnaire, click the following link: View
Application Questionnaire

Required Documents

Required Documents

You will be required to provide proof of U.S. Citizenship.

This position requires a degree. Transcripts MUST BE SUBMITTED. Failure to do
so will result in no further consideration for this vacancy. If you are
currently or were previously employed in the 1300 series, you do not need to
submit a transcript but will need to submit the SF-50, Notification of
Personnel Action to verify the series.

Only supplemental documentation, e.g. transcripts or veteran's documentation
will be accepted in combination with your on-line application. These documents
must be uploaded or faxed to 1-866-291-3009 or 202-267-7032 on or before the
closing date of this announcement. All submitted documents should reference the
announcement number.

Foreign education must be evaluated by a private professional organization
specializing in interpretation of foreign education credentials or an
accredited U.S. educational institution in terms of equivalency to a degree
acquired at an American college or university. A copy of the evaluation results
must be included, otherwise your foreign education will not be considered.
All Veterans: If you are claiming veterans' preference, you must submit either
a DD Form 214 Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member 4
Copy or equivalent), or a document from the armed forces certifying that within
120 days you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service
under honorable conditions. If you are claiming 10 point preference, you must
also submit a completed SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference,
and supporting documents outlined on the SF-15. Documents must be uploaded or
faxed to the Servicing Human Resource Management Office listed in this
announcement and all documents must be received by the closing date of the
announcement. If you fail to submit documentation, you will be assessed as a
non-veteran.

If you are claiming 10 point preference but fail to submit the supporting
documents outlined on the SF-15, you will be tentatively assessed as a 5 point
preference eligible provided your DD Form 214 reflects that you have the
service required to qualify for preference. Documents must be uploaded or faxed
to the Servicing Human Resource Management Office listed in this announcement
and all documents must be received by the closing date of the announcement. If
you fail to submit documentation, you will be assessed as a non-veteran.

Veterans currently on active duty claiming veterans' preference: You will be
granted tentative preference if you submit a document from the armed forces
certifying that within 120 days you are expected to be discharged or released
from active duty service under honorable conditions and your application shows
that you have the required service. Prior to being appointed, you must provide
to the Servicing Human Resource Management Office a DD Form 214 documenting
discharge/release and showing that the service was honorable or general. If you
are on terminal leave, you must provide documentation certifying authorized
terminal leave.
Apply
Print Share Save
[TD03]

Department Of Transportation

Federal Aviation Administration

Contact


Maria A. Pugh
Phone: (202) 267-8424
Email : maria.ctr.pugh@faa.gov


Address


Federal Aviation Administration
HQ Human Resource Services Division (AHF-100)
800 Independence Avenue, SW
Washington
DC
US
Fax: 1-866-291-3009

View Map

View Map

Please wait while map is being generated.

                                  Please wait
Close
Beginning of a dialog window for your session has expired. Escape will cancel
And close the window.

Your Session is About to Expire!

Your USAJOBS session will expire due to inactivity in three minutes. Any
unsaved data will be lost if you allow the session to expire. Click the button
below to continue your session.

Logoff Stay Logged In
Close
Return to top

  • Job Applications
  • All
  • Advancing
  • Paused
  • Stopped

  • Account
  • Home
  • Profile
  • Documents
  • Saved Jobs
  • Saved Searches
  • Username & Password

  • Help
  • Help Center
  • About USAJOBS
  • Contact Us
  • FAQs
  • Get Started
  • How to…
  • Working in Government

USAJOBS is a United States Office of Personnel Management website.

     

  • EEO Policy Statement
  • Reasonable Accommodation Policy Statement
  • Veterans Information
  • Legal and Regulatory Guidance

  • Budget and Performance
  • FOIA
  • Inspector General
  • No Fear Act Data
  • Privacy Policy
  • USA.gov

