Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Senior Data Scientist

Senior Data Scientist

Job ID 
    2015-42324

# of Openings Remaining 
    1

Location 
    US-MD-College Park

Category 
    Scientific

Residency Status 
    U.S. Citizenship Required

Clearance 
    Top Secret/SCI w/Poly

Employee Type 
    Regular

Desired Experience 
    ..

Time Type 
    Full Time

More information about this job:

Overview:

Vencore Labs (formerly Applied Communication Sciences) is a self-sustaining
research center within Vencore that provides applied research and engineering
to enable government agencies, utilities and commercial enterprises to fully
exploit the future of communications, data analytics and cyber security. From
smart grid to smart phones, intelligent highways to intelligent battlefields,
Vencore Labs’ 200 scientists, engineers and analysts are consistently creating
generation-after-next technologies and solutions.  In doing so, our labs are
helping to transform traditional government research.  We connect our customers
to advanced research and technology helping them to develop solutions to their
toughest challenges.  Accelerating the arc of transformation — from research to
engineering to products — that’s what we focus on each day at Vencore Labs.

Responsibilities:

Vencore Labs is currently seeking a Senior Research Scientist, who will support
our cyber operations research and development efforts. Successful applicants
should be able to work in teams to rapidly build prototypes to demonstrate
feasibility, and should be adept at identifying successful approaches to
complex problems.

 

Responsibilities include, but are not limited to :

  • Performing applied research and development in one or more of the following
    key areas of interest:
  • Full-spectrum cyber operations, including (for example):
  • Computer network operations (CNO)
  • Computer network defense (CND)
  • Active defense
  • Software reverse engineering & exploitation
  • Malware analysis
  • Penetration testing
  • Host and network-based forensics analysis
  • Red-team experience in cyber exercises
  • Information assurance
  • Security and privacy research for mobile devices (Android, iPhone)
  • Program analysis (including vulnerability detection and/or remediation)
  • Virtualization platform development
  • Formal methods
  • Cryptographic protocols
  • Wired and wireless networks, primarily at the MAC layer and above

Qualifications:

  • TS/SCI clearance with full lifestyle polyraph is required
  • Experienced software developer who enjoys hands-on systems building
    projects
  • Several years of experience with some of the following languages: C, C++,
    Java, Python, Perl, Ruby, assembler.
  • Some data storage experience with databases (commercial or free databases -
    Oracle, MySQL, SQlite3, Postgress) or with some new data storage systems
    (e.g., Hadoop).
  • Experience with some development tools such as IDEs (Eclipse, Netbeans,
    CodeWarrior, Visual Studio, Rational, etc.), source management  systems
    (CVS, SVN, Git, etc.), testing tools (valgrind, etc.), debugging. In short
    someone who knows how to use the tools needed to accelerate development.
  • Network experience of some kind. This can be at the low level (e.g.,
    protocols - TCP, UDP, RIP, BGP, etc.) or at a higher level (socket
    programming, web services, etc.).
  • Must know open source tools. Linux experience preferred although
    familiarity with Windows and Linux is a plus.

Prototyping experience. Someone who has built a working system of software
components that work together either on a single platform or multiple platforms
(e.g. a system that contacts a backend database)Candidates who also have
experience with some of the following would be a plus:

  • Experience with Java J2EE, Spring, containers (Weblogic, Websphere, etc),
    Tomcat.
  • Experience with virtualization (VmWare, KVM, Xen, Docker, etc.)
  • Cloud experience (Openstack, Cloudera, AWS, etc.)
  • Large datasets and filesystems (Hadoop, etc.)
  • Wireless networking (WiFi, cellphone, etc.)

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
Share |


          Vencore is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer

●Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

