Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Machine Learning Research Scientist

Machine Learning Research Scientist

Job ID 
    2016-45359

# of Openings Remaining 
    1

Location 
    US-NJ-Basking Ridge

Category 
    Scientific

Residency Status 
    U.S. Citizenship Required

Clearance 
    No Clearance Required

Employee Type 
    Regular

Desired Experience 
    ..

Time Type 
    Full Time

More information about this job:

Overview:

Vencore Labs (formerly Applied Communication Sciences) is a self-sustaining
research center within Vencore that provides applied research and engineering
to enable government agencies, utilities and commercial enterprises to fully
exploit the future of communications, data analytics and cyber security. From
smart grid to smart phones, intelligent highways to intelligent battlefields,
Vencore Labs’ 200 scientists, engineers and analysts are consistently creating
generation-after-next technologies and solutions.  In doing so, our labs are
helping to transform traditional government research.  We connect our customers
to advanced research and technology helping them to develop solutions to their
toughest challenges.  Accelerating the arc of transformation — from research to
engineering to products — that’s what we focus on each day at Vencore Labs.

Responsibilities:

Vencore Labs performs basic as well as applied research in machine learning and
data analytics. We apply machine learning technologies to multiple areas
including cyber security, IP networking, healthcare data analytics, to name
just a few. Our work spans various sectors across government and commercial
industries. Our customers include DARPA, the U.S. Army Research Labs, the U.S.
Air Force Research Labs, the U.S. Army CERDEC, and others.

 

We are looking for a dynamic individual who is interested in leading projects
in the areas of machine learning and data analytics and managing small to
mid-size teams of people working on these projects. Responsibilities will
include helping to define new projects and working with potential customers to
propose new areas of work, including participating in writing proposals for new
funding. The right candidate will enjoy interacting with people with diverse
skill sets. 

Qualifications:

Required Qualifications

  • U.S. Citizenship (This is an absolute requirement, no exceptions. This is
    required due to requirements imposed by contracts with the Federal
    government.)
  • M.S. or Ph.D. degree in a field related to machine learning (Computer
    Science, Statistics, Mathematics, or related field).
  • 5-10 years of work experience in a relevant field.
  • Hands-on skills in implementation of machine learning techniques and
    development of software systems that incorporate machine learning.
  • Ability to apply machine learning to real-world problems, such as cyber
    security, IP networking, target recognition, video analytics, social
    network analysis, or other relevant areas.
  • Effective communication and writing skills.

 

Desired Qualifications

  • Experience in working on Government proposals, especially DARPA proposals.
  • Experience in working on DARPA, IARPA, ARL, AFRL, or similar agency
    programs.
  • Experience with leading teams of people in technical projects related to
    machine learning and data analytics.
  • Record of publications in the area of machine learning or data analytics.
  • Experience in cyber security or IP networking is a plus.

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
Share |


          Vencore is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer

●Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

