Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Statistical Analyst

Statistical Analyst

Requisition ID 
    2016-2793

# of Openings 
    1

Job Locations 
    US-NY-Harrison

Posted Date 
    12/2/2016

Category  
    Data and Analytics

More information about this job

Overview

The Statistical Analyst (the ?Analyst?) is directly responsible but not limited
to developing predictive models related to the co-op and other marketing
databases. The analyst should become familiar with the utilization of
transaction data, in addition to household level and Census level data. The
individual is required to assist with the coordination of the planning,
development and execution of the modeling effort and be responsible for its
documentation.

Responsibilities

  * Develop Regression/Tree based models to support the database marketing
    efforts of co-op members and clients.
  * Provide analytical services to clients and I-Behavior staff on an ongoing
    basis.
  * Participate in the development of protocols and systems for the processing
    of model development, scoring and deployment within the ?rules? of the
    co-op environment.
  * Develop and execute quality assurance procedures related to all aspects of
    the duties pertaining to providing analytic services.
  * Interact with Client Services and Programming staff, ensuring accuracy of
    modeling applications.

Qualifications

  * Some experience as a data analyst/modeler, preferably dealing with large
    amounts of transaction data.
  * Masters in Applied Mathematics, Statistics or Econometrics and/or five
    years work experience required.
  * Experience with SAS or comparable statistical software required
  * Excellent communication and presentation skills.

  * Experience/knowledge with experimental test design for comparing campaign
    tests results and the ability to recommend sufficient universe sizes for
    testing purposes.

Options

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
#Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

