Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist III

Data Scientist III

Requisition ID 
    2016-7648

Job Locations 
    US-CA-Pasadena

Posted Date 
    11/28/2016

Category 
    Software and Computing Systems

Discipline Description 
    Data Science

Career Level 
    Level 3

Scheduled Hours 
    40

Relocation Eligibility 
    Yes

Hiring Organization 
    398J - MACHINE LEARNING AND INSTRUMENT AUTONOMY

Minimum Years of Experience 
    6

Education 
    PhD

Work Authorization 
    U.S. Citizen or Permanent Resident

Travel 
    10%

Clearance Status 
    None

LinkedIn 
    ..

Clearance Options 
    None

More information about this job:

Overview:

Do you excel in an environment that values exploration and discovery? We have a
universe of opportunities waiting for you!
 
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) is NASA’s lead center for robotic
exploration of the solar system. Our core competency is the end-to-end
implementation of unprecedented robotic space missions to study Earth, the
Solar System, and the Universe.
 
The Instrument Software and Science Data Systems section provides expertise in
life cycle instrument software and science data systems from mission/instrument
concept/design phases through operations and archiving, in support of
Planetary, Earth, Astrophysics, airborne and space missions as well as non-NASA
missions.
We are responsible for:
• Safely controlling the remote sensing instruments deployed throughout the
solar system.
• Transforming the data collected by these instruments into measurements and
preserving them for future scientific analyses.
• Providing context and understanding to the measurements.
• Making the measurements and related information accessible to a broad user
community: scientists, operations, decision makers and society at large.
To meet these responsibilities, the Section delivers advanced science data and
information systems comprised of software, hardware and operational teams that
function within a mission system context. A vigorous research and development
program enables the Section to advance technologies related to: smart
instruments and data acquisition, processing, analysis, modeling, reasoning,
visualization, management and distribution. The Section engineering teams
integrate these technologies to create high performance science data systems,
tools and services that support a wide variety and scale of projects, customers
and users.
The Section connects JPL data products and services to the rest of the world.
Our team of technologists, software developers and system engineers work
closely with mission science and instrument teams, as well as the end-user
communities through all phases of a project life cycle (concept through
operations). Consequently, the Section is uniquely able to transform science
and mission requirements into solutions that advance our understanding of how
the Earth and Universe work and respond.
 
We are proud to be part of NASA and Caltech, as we explore the universe and
make history through new discoveries.
 
We aim to do things never done before and to go places few can go. We dare
mighty things…do you?
  

Responsibilities:

Will be a member of the Machine Learning and Instrument Autonomy Group and will
report to the Technical Group Supervisor. Will conduct research and development
of machine learning technologies for application to NASA science and
engineering data and obtain funding through competitive grant proposals. Will
lead development of new algorithms and data processing methods for remote
sensing satellites and planetary surface missions. Will publicize practical and
theoretical work through conference, workshop and seminar presentations,
peer-reviewed conference and journal papers, and NASA New Technology Reports.

Qualifications:

• Typically requires a Ph.D degree in Electrical Engineering, Computer Science
or related technical discipline with typically a minimum of 2 years related
experience, or Master’s degree in similar disciplines with a minimum of 4 years
of related experience.
• Advanced knowledge in the field of applied machine learning.
• Extensive understanding and wide application of advanced principles,
theories, concepts and techniques in statistical pattern recognition, image and
signal processing, and algorithm design.
• Advanced knowledge of applicable industry and/or academic practices and
standards in academic publication and software research and development.
• Strong analytical and mathematical skills.
• Strong written and oral communication skills.


Desired Skills:
• Advanced knowledge of applicable Laboratory policies and procedures, NASA
policies and procedures, and government regulations.
• Knowledge of and significant programming experience with Python language and
associated machine learning libraries, as well as one or more of the following:
C, Matlab, Java, Perl, shell scripting.
• Significant knowledge of and experience with probability and statistics,
linear algebra, and dynamical systems.
• Knowledge of the techniques of computational mathematics.
• Track record of technical papers in peer reviewed publications and
presentations at conferences, workshops, and seminars.

Options:

 
Apply Now!Apply
Share
 
Share with Colleague/FriendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Back to Home/Login Page
Application FAQs
