Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Statistical Analyst

Statistical Analyst

Job ID 
    2016-8326

Location 
    US-NY-New York

Posted Date 
    12/22/2016

Category 
    Research & Academia - All Openings

Emp Status 
    Regular Full-Time

Hours per Week 
    35

Shift 
    Days

More information about this job:

Overview:

The HSS Healthcare Research Institute provides comprehensive methodologic and
analytic support to clinical and basic scientists at the HSS in the area of
musculoskeletal research. Under the direct supervision of the Biostatistics
Core Director, the candidate will provide health services study design and
statistical analysis support to the Foot & Ankle and Hand & Elbow services.
These “small joint” services are both engaged in high quality clinical research
and are in need of study design and statistical support for their priority
research projects. 

 

POSITION ACTIVITIES

  • Provide statistical expertise in analyzing data for clinical or basic
    science research initiatives at the hospital as assigned through the
    Biostatistics Core. Projects will be focused on the small joints: food/
    ankle, hand/elbow.
  • Review proposed HSS studies for soundness of study design and statistical
    methodology.
  • Contribute written sections for IRB applications, grant applications, and
    manuscripts for assigned projects.
  • Perform intermediate to expert level statistical queries, analyses, and
    evaluation.
  • Interact with other members of the Core and, when necessary, hospital
    scientists and clinicians involved in the assigned research projects.
  • Stay informed of statistical techniques as applied to musculoskeletal
    research issues by reading journals and/or attending courses/programming
    meetings.
  • Develop collaborative relationship with hospital researchers.
  • Peer review and suggest changes or improvements to existing analytic code
    (SAS, SPSS syntax, or R), analytical and study methods, and reports for
    validity and limitations, as performed by other members of the Core.
  • Build and improve on Macros to make data processing and presentation more
    efficient.
  • Additional duties as assigned.

MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS

 

The successful candidate should possess a terminal degree, Master’s degree or
higher in biostatistics or a related field (e.g., data mining, health outcomes,
clinical epidemiology). At least 1 year of work experience and/or research
experience in a clinical setting is required. The candidate should have the
ability to interpret technical medical data and generate sound recommendations
to support clinical research efforts. Experience in musculoskeletal research
preferred.

 

The successful candidate should possess good organization skills, time
management skills, and the ability to manage several concurrent tasks. Complete
proficiency in Microsoft Office and a statistical software package is
mandatory. SAS is the preferred statistical package within the HSS
Biostatistics Core, but experts in R are also encouraged to apply. Candidate
should have knowledge of appropriate statistical analysis for clinical research
studies.

 

Excellent oral and written communications skills are paramount due to the large
number of professional interactions that will be required for this position.
Experience working with physicians is preferred.

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

