[logo_new]

  • Home
  • Employment Listings

    Employment Listings
  • Search Job Listings
  • Update Your Profile
  • Create a Job Agent
  • Update Job Agent
  • Recruiting Agency Login

 

Your user session will timeout in 5 minutes. Please click OK to continue with
your application.

Data and Policy Analyst—Operations Coordinator (Research Operations Team)

Tracking Code
    96-764
Job Description
   
     

    Acumen, LLC and The SPHERE Institute conduct data analysis of health care
    policy at the national, state, and local levels. We leverage our
    unparalleled data access to improve information available to policymakers,
    helping to promote evidence-based policy decisions.  

     

    We are looking for a Coordinator to manage the day-to-day work of the
    Research Operations team. The Research Operations team oversees the
    organization and tracking of internal development activities.  Its primary
    responsibilities include coordinating communication between Acumen’s
    research teams and other departments and the development of internal
    resources.

     

    We are looking for candidates interested in: (i) tracking Research
    Operations activities, including all requests, assignments, and meetings;
    (ii) monitoring request timelines; (iii) maintaining the project management
    database; (iv) assisting in and documenting meetings; (v) communicating
    request specifications and updates to internal teams; (vi) drafting project
    status reports and summaries for company-wide progress updates; and (vii)
    helping to create internal resources for Acumen’s researchers.

Required Skills
   
     

    As we review your materials, we are looking for candidates who
    best exemplify the following qualifications:

     

    Qualifications Required

     

      □ Bachelor’s degree in a quantitative, public policy, or related field or
        equivalent relevant experience
      □ Good quantitative analytical skills
      □ Good oral and written communication skills
      □ Good organizational skills and strong attention to detail
      □ Familiar with one or more of the following technical competencies:
        statistics programming, policy writing, research methods documentation,
        or project management
      □ Able to demonstrate initiative, critical thinking, and problem-solving
      □ Able to work in a team-oriented environment
      □ Able to prioritize tasks and meet deadlines in a fast-paced environment
      □ Demonstrated aptitude and enthusiasm for learning

     

    Qualifications Desired

     

      □ Ability to manage and follow through on multiple ongoing projects
      □ Ability to prioritize tasks and meet deadlines on a weekly basis
      □ Ability to work across teams

     

    Any application without a cover letter will not be considered. A transcript
    is not required, but is highly preferred and may be requested. We are
    excited to review your application and look forward to seeing how you may
    best contribute to our work.

     

Job Location
    Burlingame, California, United States
Position Type
    Full-Time/Regular

Apply

[New Resume/CV]

[Existing Resume/CV]

Share

Return To Job Listings 

Acumen, LLC & The SPHERE Institute • 500 Airport Blvd, Suite 365 • Burlingame,
                 CA 94010 • 650.558.8882 • info@acumen-llc.com
 Copyright © 2017 Acumen, LLC & The SPHERE Institute | All Rights Reserved |
                                Privacy Policy                                 
