Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Quantitative Researcher, Machine Learning

Quantitative Researcher, Machine Learning

ID 
    2016-1203

Job Location 
    US-MI-Ann Arbor

Category 
    Portfolio Management

Posted Date 
    1/3/2017

Type 
    Regular Full-Time

More information about this job:

Company Overview:

WorldQuant is a quantitative asset management firm founded in 2007 and
currently has over 450 employees globally. We develop and deploy systematic
financial strategies across a variety of asset classes in global markets,
utilizing a proprietary research platform and risk management process.

 

Our team in Ann Arbor, Michigan is looking for a Quantitative Researcher,
Machine Learning. Candidates will independently, and with guidance from senior
staff, apply deep learning, pattern recognition and other techniques to
discover quality alpha signals for our diversified portfolio. Projects have
substantial impact on our team’s success and we have many opportunities for
growth and leadership.

Job Responsibilities (include, but not limited to the following):

  • Employ machine learning technologies to identify market patterns
  • Direct development of our machine learning infrastructure and research
    projects
  • Collaborate with team on best practices and shape overall business strategy

Job Qualifications:

The ideal candidate has an advanced technical degree, practical experience, and
most specific qualifications below. You’ll need applied mathematics,
experience, creativity, energy and focus to repeatedly uncover novel alpha
signals, risk factors, and optimizations.

  • Advanced degree in Machine Learning, or other STEM concentration
  • Applied Big Data and Machine Learning experience
  • C++/Python experience
  • The ability to clearly express technical concepts verbally and in writing
  • Self-motivator with strong work ethic
  • Passion

Position based in Ann Arbor, MI.

 

WorldQuant is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate in hiring
on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation or
preference, age, marital status, citizenship, national origin, disability,
military status, genetic predisposition or carrier status, or any other
protected characteristic as established by applicable law.

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

