Toggle navigation
Predictive Science

  • Home
  • Platform
  • Data Science
  • Big Data
  • Case Studies
  • About Us
  • We Are Hiring!

Data Scientist

Posted by Steve Tedjamulia on October 5, 2016 | Featured
[__64x64_lo]
Predictive Science  Published: October 5, 2016
Location
Anywhere, United States
Job Type
Full-time/Part-time/Freelance
Category
Data Science

Description

Spun out of Dell’s Digital Innovation Lab in 2013, Predictive Science has
benefited from $40M in total R&D investment to become one of the fastest
growing tech startups in the United States.  Predictive Science is helping
companies such as Verizon, NFL, Neiman Marcus, Dell, VMware and many others
unlock the power of their data by creating algorithms that are changing the
world.

Predictive Science is looking for a Data Scientist who can work with Fortune
1000 companies and other companies around the world to help them take on
challenging data problems that can provide high impact results.  This is a
freelance data scientist position who will work with other senior data
scientists to consult with executives and data scientists who are a part of the
Predictive Science network.

Desired Experience

  • Advanced Experience with programming scripts such as Python, Java, Scala,
    C++ in Linux/Unix, and R. Preference that you are highly knowledgeable in
    numerous languages.
  • Experience in creating and implementing machine learning algorithms and
    advanced statistics such as: regression, clustering, decision trees,
    exploratory data analysis methodology, simulation, scenario analysis,
    modeling, and neural networks.
  • Experience with web services such as AWS ,DigitalOcean,  Redshift, S3, and
    Spark. Also the ability to connect data using web API, REST API, and web
    crawling techniques.
  • Experience with SQL querying and knowledge of PostgreSQL, MySQL, MSSQL
    databases.
  • Experience in analyzing data from business line data applications and data
    providers such as Google Analytics, Site Catalyst, Coremetrics, Adwords,
    Crimson Hexagon, Facebook Insights, Nielsen, Comscore, Simmons, MRI and etc
  • Experience in visualizing data to stakeholders in a simple and concise
    manner through visualization software such as ggplot, D3,Tableau Qlinkview,
    Periscope, Business Objects, or other similar software.
  • Ability to analyze data, draw insights, and prepare reports in a cohesive,
    intuitive, and simplistic manner to the client.
  • Strong communication skills
  • Excellent organization and prioritization skills

About the Opportunity

  • Work with our Data Science team to implement big data solutions for the
    client
  • Mine massive amounts and perform large-scale data analysis to extract
    useful business insights
  • Identify actionable insights, suggest recommendations, and influence the
    direction of the business by effectively communicating results to cross
    functional groups

Job Perks

Being part of Predictive Science means more than just working on challenging
projects.  There are other benefits you will receive as well.

  • Free Conference Passes: Join data science experts from all around the world
    for amazing learning events.  The events are free for Predictive Science
    network members.
  • Special Offers and Free Products:  Predictive Science partners provide
    special offers and free products for network members.  Get your hands on
    early-release products and get the opportunity to be an influencer.
  • Recruiting Services:  Looking to take the next big step in your career? 
    Predictive Science offers headhunting services to network members.  You
    will receive career and resume feedback, and head hunters will help you get
    placed.
  • Leadership Opportunities:  Not getting the leadership experience you want
    from your current job?  Trying to grow your leadership abilities?  
    Predictive Science offers industry leadership opportunities for network
    members.  Continue to expand your skills and build your resume.
  • Network Opportunities:  Build relationships with other data scientists,
    vendors, and company executives.  Expand your network and opportunities as
    you partner with network members on projects.
  • Training: Predictive Science helps you get hands-on experience as a data
    scientist while you get paid and sets you on a high-growth-trajectory
    path.  Your skills will be challenged all along the way, and opportunities
    will be provided through conferences and online training to help you learn
    new skills that will make you more valuable.

Time Commitment

Predictive Science gives you the flexibility of working remotely and picking
what hours you want to work.  Already have a job but want to earn more money?
Predictive Science can be flexible to accommodate your situation.  Want a lot
of flexibility? Sign up for a project that pays you per task or per hour.  If
you want more dependability and a full time commitment, we can provide
contractor or full-time position.

We Want You to Succeed

Predictive Science is committed to helping you grow your career and get the
experience you need to become successful.  Our goal is to build the largest
network of data scientists and place them in the most successful positions. 
Your skills will be challenged all along the way, and opportunities will be
provided through conferences and online training to help you learn new skills
that will make you more valuable and get promoted.  Additionally, to support
your career growth, we have our own recruiting team that works hard for you to
find a position either with Predictive Science or somewhere else.  No other
company cares more about your career progression than Predictive Science.

About Predictive Science

Predictive Science is the fastest growing data science network focused on
building the largest data science platform that can help businesses turn data
into actionable results while significantly creating cost savings.  Challenging
data problems that were too expensive, risky, or resource limited to solve, can
now be solved with the help of Predictive Science and its global network of
data scientists.  Predictive Science is helping companies such as Verizon, NFL,
Neiman Marcus, Dell, VMware and many others unlock the power of their data by
creating algorithms that are changing the world.

Apply Online  
Apply
First name *
[                    ]
Last name *
[                    ]
Your e-mail address *
[                    ]
Resume *
Drop files here browse files ...
Cover Letter
[                    ]
City *
[                    ]
State *
[    ]
Country *
[United States       ]
How did you find out about this job? *
[College Job Board   ]
Current/Last Role
[                    ]
Current/Last Company
[                    ]
Education Degree
[                    ]
University
[Aeronautics Institute of Technology                                                                             ]
[Send Application]
Related Jobs

Chief Data Scientist   Anywhere, United States new
October 5, 2016
Data Science Apprentice   Anywhere, United States new
October 5, 2016
Data Associate   Anywhere, United States new
October 5, 2016
Data Analyst   Anywhere, United States new
October 5, 2016
Senior Data Scientist   Anywhere, United States new
October 5, 2016
Comments are closed.

Featured Jobs

Chief Data Scientist
Anywhere, United States

Related Jobs

Data Science Apprentice
Anywhere, United States
Data Associate
Anywhere, United States
Data Analyst
Anywhere, United States
Data Scientist
Anywhere, United States
Senior Data Scientist
Anywhere, United States
Chief Data Scientist
Anywhere, United States
View All
   

 © 2016 Predictive Science | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | Career Listings |
News

Jaime Cavazos

As VP of Project Management, Jaime brings his experience in engineering and
management to make sure that Predictive Science hits their product launch
goals. Jaime has been with Predictive Science since its founding in 2013.

Prior to joining Predictive Science, Jaime worked for Dell as an Applications
Manager, where he was responsible for integrating and developing applications
across a variety of platforms. Previously, Jaime has worked with a number of
large technology and marketing companies, including startups, with a variety of
roles in design and engineering.

×
Steve Tedjamulia

Prior to Predictive Science, Steven was the founder and executive practice lead
for Dell’s Digital Strategy and Innovation consulting practice. He also served
as the director and co-founder of Dell’s digital and social commerce innovation
labs, where he led strategic efforts in creating, experimenting, partnering,
and launching digital and big data technologies.

Steven serves on the boards of Brand Innovators, Digital Strategy Innovation
Summit, Chief Strategy Officer Magazine, and Tech Media. He also continues to
advise Carnival Cruise Lines, VMware, and Verizon’s digital executives.

×
Allison Dancy

Allison is a proven executive with over 20 year’s experience in sales and
marketing. As Vice President of Marketing she is responsible for the strategic
direction and execution of all aspects of marketing.

Prior to Predictive Science she was Vice President of Marketing for Hearst
owned CDS Global, the worldwide leader in business process outsourcing for the
magazine publishing industry. There she oversaw all marketing functions and
spearheaded a global rebrand, launched a new website, and created sustainable
processes around public relations, content marketing, social media marketing,
content marketing, demand generation, and corporate events.

Before CDS Global Dancy held a variety of leadership roles in sales, partner
channels, strategic alliances, demand generation & marketing at companies such
as Lotus Development, IBM, Dell, and OpenText/Vignette.

×
Ryan Haws

Ryan earned a law degree with honors from George Washington University, and has
spent his career practicing intellectual property and technology law with a
focus on computer software and electronics. He leverages his technical
background and legal experience to help Predictive Science stake out leading
positions relating to its technology.

Prior to joining Predictive Science, Ryan worked at two of America’s largest
law firms advising Fortune 500 companies and startups on patents, intellectual
property protection, trade secrets, technology licensing, negotiations, and
complex litigation.

Before pursuing law, Ryan earned an electrical engineering degree from Brigham
Young University and worked as a Systems Engineer and software developer for
Lockheed Martin where he oversaw development and management of big data
processing systems for the U.S. intelligence community.

×
Jamey Heinze

Jamey Heinze is Senior Vice President and CMO In-Residence at Predictive
Science. In this role he leads the company’s new client engagement and business
development activities, drawing upon and sharing insights gleaned from 25 years
of sales and marketing experience across technology industries.

Prior to joining Predictive Science, Heinze served as Chief Marketing Officer
at CDS Global, a subsidiary of Hearst Corporation and the worldwide leader in
business process outsourcing for the publishing industry. There he implemented
a comprehensive, closed-loop marketing engine and drove the company’s efforts
to cultivate awareness and generate demand in emerging markets.

Before CDS Global, Heinze led global demand generation for OpenText/Vignette,
and data services product management for Level 3/Broadwing. Earlier in his
career, he worked with Xerox, Sprint, MCI, and Worldcom in a variety of direct
sales positions.

An alumnus of Penn State University, Jamey graduated with highest honors.

×
Phil Matheson

Phil has worked as a software engineer, manager, and architect for the past 15
years. Prior to joining Predictive Science, Phil worked for 6 years at Cartera
Commerce, Inc. where he was a key member of the engineering and management
teams that built several high traffic web properties for the financial
industry.

After joining Predictive Science in 2013 as a Senior Architect, Phil began
building the core of what would become the Predictive Science platform. In 2015
Phil was promoted to Vice President of Engineering where he maintains a
hands-on approach and works closely with the engineering team to code and
architect the next generation of features on a daily basis.

×
Rod Whisnant

Rod has worked as a technologist, product executive, and entrepreneur for more
than 20 years, holding leadership roles in companies ranging from startups to
enterprise players.

Prior to Predictive Science, Rod led Product & Engineering for the Dell
subsidiary, Marketvine, which developed innovative SaaS solutions for large
retailers. As a result, he is named in four patents. Rod is also the founder
and CTO of CrowdMesh, a startup in the social media analysis space.

Rod’s passion for delivering creative solutions to customer problems makes him
a natural leader for product development in areas including SaaS, big data,
social media and eCommerce.

×
Phillip Ulberg

Phillip brings 15 years of experience in media technology, systems engineering,
and IT leadership to his VP Technology and DevOps role at Predictive Science.

Before joining Predictive Science, Phillip worked as a cloud infrastructure
engineer for Allegiance, Inc. and principal systems engineer for DTI and spent
six years as a systems engineer for the Walt Disney Internet Group.

×
Smartphone Company Uncovers New Personas and Increases Revenues with Predictive
Science

A fortune 1000 smart device company used Predictive Science technology to
discover personas for the launch of a new smartphone. Using Predictive Science
technology, they identified new, feature conscious, non-smartphone user
personas as well as ways to uniquely target them, increasing SEM campaign
impressions by 27.5% and total campaign revenues by 8%.

×
Consumer Electronics Company Increases Top of the Funnel Results by Engaging
with Influencers

A Fortune 100 consumer electronics company worked with Predictive Science to
identify key influencers relevant to specific, primary keywords. Predictive
Science helped the client partner with key influencers resulting in top ten
placement in organic search results. Search rankings increased rapidly and in a
targeted fashion.  Our client got comparable results while avoiding the time
and expense associated with a traditional advertising campaign.  

 

×
Consumer Electronics Company Increases Leads and Conversions Through Improved
Persona Targeting

Faced with the challenge of increasing year-over-year revenue by $100 million,
a Fortune 100 consumer electronics company turned to Predictive Science for
help discovering new leads to boost revenue.  Predictive Science identified new
personas and optimal marketing channels to for each personal leading to a 20%
increase in leads and 2-5% increases in conversion rates.

×
Leading Airline Uses Big Data to Identify the Financial Impact of Bad Customer
Experiences

Using big data and an array of proprietary algorithms, Predictive Science
scores customer experience in real-time, giving clients a dynamic “Net
Promoter” style Brand Score. Predictive Science used this Brand Score to help a
leading airline benchmark brand sentiment and model the potential financial
impact of negative customer experiences. For one widely publicized issue,
Predictive Science predicted that absent adequate response, the airline could
experience a 19% drop in Brand Score with a related financial losses of
$300,000 per day.

×
Consumer Electronics Company Increases Online Conversions By Optimizing the
Shopping Experience

A large consumer electronics Client worked with Predictive Science to identify
a set of most-attainable personas and shopping experience changes to help
improve conversion for these personas.  Predictive Science helped the company
increase online conversions by 12% increase email conversion by 33% for the
targeted personas.

×
Telecom Company Identifies Competitors’ Disgruntled Customers to Increase
Market Share

Over 90% of potential American customers have already selected a cell phone
carrier, meaning switchers have become increasingly important.   A Fortune 10
wireless provider engaged with Predictive Science to analyze their competitor’s
customer journey to identify disgruntled customers who were most likely to
switch.  Predictive Science applied look-alike modeling techniques to identify
switching patterns behind a potential 50,000 subscriber increase.  

×
Are you sure you want to delete this file?
Yes, delete this file. Cancel
/
 
[                    ]
 

Add Files Cancel selected
Questions? Feedback? powered by Olark live chat software
