                                    * Home |
                                  * About Us |
                            * Products & Solutions |
                                * Technologies |
                             * Support & Services |
                               * Media & Events |
                                    * Contact

Current Openings                                          Job Detail
Search Jobs
Job Search Agent                                                                                                               Login to My Account
Benefits
Corporate Culture                                         Job Title: Senior Scientist                                                                              
Careers Home
Quick Job Search                                          Location: Edgewood, MD                              Posted: 01-06-2017
Keyword
[                    ]                                    Category: Research & Development                    Experience: 6-9 years
Job Category
[All Categories                 ]                         Status: Full-Time
Location
[All Locations                                          ] Apply Online ?

[btn_arrow]                                               Position Description                                                                                     


                                                          SUMMARY OF ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:

                                                          A Senior Scientist is responsible for planning, coordinating, and conducting
                                                          research and development in support of new and existing products. The
                                                          individual is expected to drive and support GC/MS-related technology
                                                          development projects in a team environment. Further, the individual must be
                                                          highly-motivated, team-oriented, flexible, and is expected to become the
                                                          technical authority for the existing GC/MS products and projects, and
                                                          contribute to projects in support of the SDI product and technology roadmaps.


                                                          SPECIFIC DUTIES, ACTIVITIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES INCLUDE BUT ARE NOT LIMITED
                                                          TO:

                                                          ? Applies general scientific knowledge to learn the principles and application
                                                          of all GC/MS-related products and laboratory equipment.
                                                          ? Creatively applies problem solving skills to resolve technical challenges of
                                                          significant scope and complexity.
                                                          ? Plans, coordinates, and conducts scientific research often requiring
                                                          independent judgment.
                                                          ? Sets up equipment, performs experiments, and collects data using best
                                                          practices and protocols.
                                                          ? Analyzes and interprets data using standard statistical and scientific
                                                          software packages.
                                                          ? Prepares technical reports and presentations for technical and non-technical
                                                          audiences, internally and externally.
                                                          ? Ensures proper care in the use and maintenance of equipment, materials,
                                                          chemicals, and supplies.
                                                          ? Promotes best laboratory practices and practices/forces workplace safety and
                                                          compliance with environmental regulations.
                                                          ? Drives continuous improvement by developing procedures that affect laboratory
                                                          operation.
                                                          ? Lead, guide, and train customers, employees, and partners on new and existing
                                                          equipment and products.
                                                          ? Able to travel to customer sites or testing facilities to install, train,
                                                          support, and/or perform analytical tests.
                                                          ? Supports sales, marketing, product management, engineering, manufacturing,
                                                          and service groups relative to new and existing products.
                                                          ? Other duties as required.




                                                          Requirements


                                                          POSITION REQUIREMENTS:

                                                          Education /Experience:

                                                          ? Ph.D. in Physical Chemistry/Chemical Physics, Analytical Chemistry, or
                                                          Engineering
                                                          ? 2-5 years industry experience, including scientific research, engineering,
                                                          and/or product development.
                                                          ? Hands-on experience in developing chemical detection equipment is preferred

                                                          Knowledge/Skills:

                                                          ? Expert knowledge of chemistry, physics, mass spectrometry, and engineering
                                                          fundamentals.
                                                          ? Knowledge and hands-on experience in analytical instrumentation, including
                                                          GC, MS, FTIR, and Raman.
                                                          ? Skill in the use of personal computers and data/word processing software
                                                          applications.
                                                          ? Ability to work in a team environment or independently as conditions require
                                                          ? Good written and verbal communication skills, both one-on-one and to large
                                                          audiences.
                                                          ? Possess excellent organizational and interpersonal skills to multi-task
                                                          several priorities and tasks.
                                                          ? Self-motivated, reliable, and accountable individual.
                                                          ? Commitment to customer and internal support
                                                          ? Flexibility to accept changes in priorities and project

                                                          Supervisory Responsibilities:

                                                          ? N/A

                                                          Physical/mental requirements:

                                                          ? Ability to solve complex problems.
                                                          ? Willingness to work with chemicals and hazardous substances.
                                                          ? Ability to lift packages up to 50 lbs. unassisted
                                                          ? Ability to communicate clearly, and to facilitate communications between
                                                          employees in different disciplines.
                                                          ? Ability and willingness to travel to customer and other Smiths locations (10%
                                                          anticipated)

                                                          Work environment:

                                                          ? Office/cubicle, engineering and chemical laboratory, manufacturing floor.

                                                          *Must be eligible for a US Security Clearance

                                                          Smiths Detection is an Equal Opportunity Employer





                                                                                                                                Apply
                                                          Back                                                                  Online ?


   ? Copyright 2017 Smiths Detection. A Part of Smiths Group plc. All Rights
                                   Reserved.
                               Imprint | Sitemap

