Go To www.chep.com
[banner_arr] [banner_car] [banner_eve] [background]
[background]
  Sign In to access application status,
  saved documents and Job Search Agents
  Job Details
  New Search View Job Cart (0) Send This Job to a
  Friend View My Account
  Data Scientist

  Job ID #: 5218         Location: CA_Palo Alto

  Position Type: Regular Education Required: 
  Full-Time              Bachelors Degree

  Experience Required: 3 Relocation Provided: 
  - 5 Years              Yes, within country

  Job Category: 
  Information Technology
  
  [Apply Now]                   [Add to Job Cart]
  CHEP is the world leader in pallet and
  container pooling services, serving many of the
  world's largest companies. CHEP issues,
  collects, conditions and reissues more than 285
  million pallets and containers from a global
  network of more than 500 service centers in 42
  countries, helping manufacturers and growers
  transport their products to distributors and
  retailers.

  CHEP partners with customers to develop pooling
  solutions that ensure reduced product damage,
  offer enhanced delivery efficiencies, eliminate
  waste and cut supply chain costs, adding
  exceptional value for its customers. With more
  than 300,000 customers around the globe,
  including Procter & Gamble, SYSCO, Carrefour,
  Kellogg's, Woolworths, Kraft, Nestlé, Lion
  Nathan, The Home Depot, Tesco, Unilever,
  Hewlett Packard, Ford and GM, CHEP is known for
  "Handling The World's Most Important
  Products…Everyday."

  CHEP employs more than 7,700 employees in 42
  countries and benefits from more than four
  decades of industry experience internationally.

  Position Description

  DUTIES / RESPONSIBILITIES
  • Be responsible for modeling complex problems,
  discovering insights and identifying
  opportunities through the use of statistical,
  algorithmic, mining and visualization
  techniques.
  • Be proficient at integrating and preparing
  large, varied datasets, architecting
  specialized database and computing
  environments, and communicating results.  
  • Will work closely with key stakeholders to
  turn data into critical information and
  knowledge that can be used to make sound
  organizational decisions. Other
  responsibilities include providing data that is
  congruent and reliable.
  • Propose innovative ways to look at problems
  by using data mining (the process of
  discovering new patterns from large datasets)
  approaches on the set of information available.
  They will need to validate their findings using
  an experimental and iterative approach.
  • Present back their findings to the business
  by exposing their assumptions and validation
  work in a way that can be easily understood by
  their business counterparts.
  • Drive analytical rigor over the entire asset
  management lifecycle. Lead the design, testing,
  and development of operational models for all
  of our markets. Partner with executives, local
  teams, customers and other internal business
  units to unlock opportunities for growth.
  • Build and manage a team of analysts. Use
  predictive modeling, statistics, data mining,
  and other data analysis techniques to collect,
  explore, and extract insights from very large
  scale structured (mainly) and unstructured
  operations data. Equip regions, headquarters
  and customers with actionable dashboards and
  deep supply chain insights.
  • Develop algorithms and apply data science
  principles to operations data to solve a
  variety of business problems and enable
  business strategy. Predicting the future, like
  modeling delivery times and forecasting supply
  & demand.
  • Document performance risks, results, analysis
  and recommendations; Effectively communicate
  information and insights to stakeholders.

  DESIRED SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE:
  • Experience with Python, R, and/or Matlab for
  data exploration and algorithm development is
  desired.  
  • Experience with cloud computing environments
  like AWS and Azure, and experience with
  distributed computing with Hadoop or Spark.

  Come join an extremely successful performance
  and growth oriented team, we'd love to hear
  from you. A highly competitive compensation and
  benefit package including retirement benefits,
  educational reimbursement, and more is offered
  in conjunction with an exciting, fast paced
  work environment. Come help us… Handle the
  World's Most Important Products. Everyday.
  www.chep.com/jobs EOE

  We are an Equal Opportunity Employer and do not
  discriminate against any employee or applicant
  for employment because of race, color, sex,
  age, national origin, religion, sexual
  orientation, gender identity, status as a
  veteran, and basis of disability or any other
  federal, state or local protected class.

  Move   Back to top
  Up
  New Search View Job Cart (0) Send This Job to a
  Friend View My Account
