Guided Marketing for Small Business

  * 
  * What is ThriveHive
  * 
  * About Us
  * 
  * Pricing
  * 
  * Blog
  * 
  * Marketing Resources
  * 
  * Contact

  * Log in

  * Guided Marketing for Small Business

  * 
  * What is ThriveHive
  * 
  * About Us
  * 
  * Pricing
  * 
  * Blog
  * 
  * Marketing Resources
  * 
  * Contact

  * Get a Demo
  * Log in

Interested in Working at ThriveHive? Apply Today

[jobs]

We're always looking for passionate, talented people to join the ThriveHive
team where we are passionate about helping local, small businesses to market
better. ThriveHive is a dynamic workplace where people work hard while having
fun. We are constantly growing and looking to add to our team. Click to read
more about our openings and contact us to apply.

    Open   Website Designer  |  Cambridge, MA
   
    Website Designer | Cambridge, MA

    We?re looking for a designer who has a passion for small business and the
    ability to bring gorgeous website designs to life.


    ThriveHive works with the small business owners (think interior designers,
    dentists, and realtors) that power the US economy. They are passionate
    about what they do, but they need help bringing their online presence to
    life. As a website designer you will help them turn that passion into a
    beautiful website that truly allows them to shine. The websites that we
    create directly affect the business owner?s ability to put food on their
    table. We need someone who cares about that.


    Not only will you help to build websites for existing customers, but you
    will also contribute new designs and templates to our library of options
    that customers can use as a starting point. Knowledge of html, css, and
    WordPress are a plus, but we are also happy to train you. We?re looking for
    awesome design talent first.

    Working at a startup means we have lots of fun and work hard. Along with
    your major responsibilities we may find other areas for you to grow into,
    such as working on ThriveHive?s own marketing and/or product offering,
    depending upon your strengths and the areas where you would like to grow
    personally.

    Open   Senior Website Designer  |  Cambridge, MA
   
    Senior Website Designer | Cambridge, MA

    We?re looking for a designer who has a passion for small business and a
    proven ability to bring gorgeous website designs to life. Ideally you will
    have a formal design background including several years of experience
    designing and building sites in WordPress with custom CSS and HTML.

    ThriveHive works with the small business owners (think interior designers,
    dentists, and realtors) that power the US economy. They are passionate
    about what they do, but they need help bringing their online presence to
    life. As a website designer you will help them turn that passion into a
    beautiful website that truly allows them to shine. The websites that we
    create directly affect the business owner?s ability to put food on their
    table. We need someone who cares about that.

    Not only will you help to build websites for existing customers, but you
    will also contribute new designs and templates to our library of options
    that customers can use as a starting point. Knowledge of html, css, and
    WordPress are a plus, but we are also happy to train you. We?re looking for
    awesome design talent first.

    Working at a startup means we have lots of fun and work hard. Along with
    your major responsibilities we may find other areas for you to grow into,
    such as working on ThriveHive?s own marketing and/or product offering,
    depending upon your strengths and the areas where you would like to grow
    personally.

    Filled   Front End Web Developer  |  Cambridge, MA
   
    Front End Web Developer | Cambridge, MA

    We are searching for a talented front-end web developer to join our team
    and help us build a great product. You will create beautiful interfaces
    using a modern approach.

    We are building a complex, single-page application using many different
    technologies including Durandal (jQuery, Knockout, RequireJS), Foundation,
    SCSS, Jasmine, Bower, NodeJS, and Grunt. And we don?t worry about older
    versions of a certain browser. Bonus points if you have experience with
    Illustrator or Photoshop!

    Logistics: Our office is located 5 minutes from the Kendall Square stop on
    the Red Line in Cambridge, MA with indoor bike parking, friendly security
    guards, and a 1:1 human to desk ratio.

    Skills and Experience:

    The right candidate is someone who either has deep experience building and/
    or designing web applications or someone with a burning desire to.

    Open   Marketing Coach  |  Cambridge, MA
   
    Marketing Coach | Cambridge, MA

    We?re looking for a great communicator with a passion for small business
    and a deep understanding of marketing strategy and execution. You will be
    tasked with coaching small business owners from diverse industries to help
    them understand how to execute their marketing tasks and achieve their
    growth goals. You must have experience with proactive account management,
    be detail oriented and data-driven to help our customers extract value from
    analytics and marketing results. On top of this you must be friendly,
    courteous, professional and comfortable interacting with customers over the
    phone. You will be working with lots of great people from around the
    country who own a range of interesting and different small businesses. Your
    guidance help keep them grow their business and put food on their tables.

    You will also be responsible for customer marketing kick-off meetings.
    ThriveHive offers a range of tools and reports for small business owners
    and you will help our customers understand how to interpret their data and
    derive actionable steps based on it. You will schedule and conduct
    one-on-one marketing sessions using remote conferencing tools. This will
    require you to be thoroughly knowledgeable about ThriveHive?s marketing
    tools, about general marketing concepts, and be able to deliver customized
    recommendations depending on the needs of each business.

    Working at a startup means we have lots of fun and work hard. Along with
    your major responsibilities, we may find other areas for you to grow into
    such as our own marketing, developing marketing and help content, working
    with our website and other areas that make sense depending on your
    strengths.

    Your responsibilities:

      + Review and refine marketing plans for diverse small businesses
      + Conduct marketing kick-off meetings to take new customers through their

    marketing plans

      + Make our customers successful by coaching them and guiding them to use

     

    ThriveHive

      + and marketing best practices
      + Respond quickly to questions about ThriveHive which may range from
        technical to
      + marketing-related
      + Work closely with account managers to ensure a great customers
        experience

     

    Skills & Requirements

      + Proactive account management experience
      + Knowledge of both PC and Mac operating systems
      + Knowledge of internet browsers and applications like MS Office,
        GoToMeeting, etc.
      + Marketing strategy domain expertise
      + SEO and basic website structure best practices
      + Basic understanding of web analytics and marketing reports
      + Email Marketing
      + SEM, FB Ads and Twitter Ads platform
      + Social Media Marketing
      + Direct Mail Marketing
      + Excellent oral and written communication skills and patient, helpful
        demeanor
      + WordPress experience and knowledge of other CMSs like Joomla and Drupal
        a plus
    Open   Inside Sales Marketing Specialist  |  Cambridge, MA
   
    Inside Sales Marketing Specialist | Cambridge, MA

    As a Marketing Specialist, this is what you will do:

      + Follow up on highly qualified inbound leads at small and mid-sized
        companies. (Don?t worry, we don?t do that cold call thing. It?s not
        us.)
      + Close new business consistently at or above quota level
      + Use your creativity when interacting and closing deals with small
        business owners
      + Serve as a brand enthusiast for ThriveHive?s products and solutions
      + Be a critical contributor to our team of young and energetic inside
        sales marketing enthusiasts
      + Have a desire to work with people that don?t have egos and want to take
        on more work instead of run from it

    Requirements:

      + Experience within a sales team that produces and exceeds their goals
        consistently
      + Passion for working with small business owners
      + Desire to be in a startup environment
      + 2-5+ years of selling experience operating within a web technologies or
        innovative online product environment
      + Strong overall understanding of digital marketing, social media
      + Quick learner ? grasp marketing concepts quickly
      + Superior communications skills
      + Exceptional closing skills

    Education: B.S. or B.A. Degree

    Location: Our office is located 5 minutes from the Kendall Square stop on
    the Red Line in Cambridge with all the stuff you would expect from a
    start-up: indoor bike parking, friendly security guards, and a 1:1 human to
    desk ratio.

    Be ready, we are a TechStars ?15 company and are building a product with
    big potential that can change the marketing game for the small businesses!

    Open   Customer Specialist  |  Cambridge, MA
   
    Customer Specialist | Cambridge, MA

    We?re looking for a great communicator with a passion for small business
    marketing and an understanding of html. You will be tasked with responding
    to customer inquiries regarding technical issues and basic marketing
    concerns by phone and email. You must be friendly, courteous, and
    professional. You will be interacting with lots of great people from around
    the country who own a range of interesting and different small businesses.
    Your answers help keep them in business and put food on their tables.

    You will also be responsible for customer training. ThriveHive offers a
    range of tools and reports for small business owners and you will help our
    new customers get on board by conducting one-on-one and group training
    sessions using remote conferencing tools. This will require you to be
    thoroughly knowledgeable about ThriveHive?s marketing tools, about general
    marketing concepts, and be able to deliver customized training depending on
    the needs of each business.

    Your third area of responsibility is instrumentation. ThriveHive?s power
    comes from its ability to measure our customers? marketing. In order to do
    so, we must put mechanisms in place to actually capture the marketing data.
    We?ll teach you how to do the instrumentation, but you must be interested
    in learning about html and website management if you aren?t already
    familiar. Previous experience would be a huge help (including personal web
    projects).

    Working at a startup means we have lots of fun and work hard. Along with
    your major responsibilities, we may find other areas for you to grow into
    such as developing our help content, working with our website and
    marketing, and other areas that make sense depending on your strengths.

    Your responsibilities:

      + Instrument customer websites with ThriveHive tracking code, forms,
        phone numbers, etc.
      + Make our customers more successful by training and assisting them with
        using ThriveHive
      + Respond quickly to questions about ThriveHive which may range from
        technical to marketing-related
      + Assist in developing our customer service practice
      + Augment our training and help content

Open   Technical Support Representative  |  Cambridge, MA

Technical Support Representative | Cambridge, MA

We?re looking for someone who can troubleshoot and solve technical issues to
ensure a great experience for our customers. You must be tech savvy and very
passionate about small businesses. You will be tasked with responding to
customer inquiries regarding technical issues by phone and email in a
courteous, patient and professional manner. You will be interacting with lots
of great people from around the country who own a range of interesting and
different small businesses and your answers help keep them in business and help
them succeed with ThriveHive.
You will be on the front line, supporting for our customers with technical
issues they encounter. As such, your role will encompass everything from
troubleshooting domain setups on cPanel to solving technical issues with
WordPress and other CMS?s, working with CSS/HTML and small amounts of
javascript, as well as supporting our customers use of the ThriveHive software
platform and its various features. ThriveHive offers a guided marketing
solution which includes a range of tools and reports for small business owners.
You will help our new and existing customers with any technical difficulties
that they might face getting on board or using the platform. You will also
support our team to ensure they can deliver an amazing experience to all our
customers.

And finally, you will be responsible for helping customers instrument their
websites with our tracking code and various assets. Because ThriveHive?s power
comes from its ability to accurately measure our customers? marketing, they
must put mechanisms in place to actually capture the data. We?ll teach you how
to do the instrumentation, but you must be knowledgeable on different CMSs,
HTML and CSS, and willing to learn some basic javascript troubleshooting
skills.

Working at a startup means we have lots of fun and work hard. Along with your
major responsibilities, we may find other areas for you to grow into such as
helping our product team with QA testing of new features, working with our
content team to develop help articles and any other areas that make sense
depending on your strengths.

Your responsibilities:

  * Customer facing role that will ensure our customers have a great experience
    using our software
  * Troubleshoot technical issues with instrumentation of our customer
    websites. (ThriveHive tracking code, forms, phone numbers, etc.)
  * Track and resolve other technical issues faced by our customers
  * Report any software bugs or technical issues to our product team to help
    our product development effort
  * Respond quickly to technical questions about ThriveHive or any of our
    related services
  * Assist in developing technical support documentation and tools/processes
    for use by the support team

Skills & Requirements

  * Knowledge of both PC and Mac operating systems
  * Knowledge of internet browsers and applications like MS Office,
    GoToMeeting, etc.
  * WordPress experience is a must (knowledge of other CMSs like Joomla and
    Drupal a plus)
  * Excellent oral and written communication skills and patient, helpful
    demeanor
  * HTML and CSS
  * Experience with JavaScript is a plus (willingness to learn a must)

Open   Software Developer  |  Cambridge, MA

Software Developer | Cambridge, MA

We are searching for a talented developer to join our team and help us build a
great product and shape the future of our company. The right candidate is
someone who can be handed critical projects and do what it takes to deliver
concise, functional code that doesn?t bring our app server to its knees. We?re
looking for someone who has has the desire and proven ability to learn the
languages and skills needed to get things done.
Our web application reaches across a range of technologies, is hosted in the
cloud, and will offer you the chance to flex your programming muscles. To work
with us, you?ll need to be comfortable working with web technologies like
JQuery/Javascript and others.

Logistics: Our office is located 5 minutes from the Kendall Square stop on the
Red Line in Cambridge with indoor bike parking, friendly security guards, and a
1:1 human to desk ratio. We?re building a product with big potential in the B2B
space.

If you?re someone who will excel in a fast-paced environment, doesn?t want to
be a cog in a machine, and is proud of the work they do, please send us a
resume and cover letter. We?re excited to meet you.
Relevant Skills:

  * Experience with object oriented programming and understanding of the MVC
    design pattern
  * SQL (MySQL), JQuery experience
  * Experience with NoSql Databases, Amazon Web Services (especially RDS and
    SimpleDB) a plus

Open   Data Scientist  |  Cambridge, MA

Data Scientist | Cambridge, MA

Our team is looking for someone who is eager to join a fast-growing company and
help modernize the way small business owners do marketing. As our primary data
scientist, you will dive deep into our customer data to identify the actions
and behaviors of successful small business marketing, and use statistics and
machine learning techniques to provide actionable insights to our customers.

Potential backgrounds:

Math, physics, statistics, economics, machine learning/computer science
Sociology, provided you have the right quantitative and programming skills!

Responsibilities

  * Identify and refine calculation of key success metrics for customers and
    the business
  * Produce analytics and visualizations advising on strategy and product
    development
  * Maintain, improve and expand ThriveHive marketing recommendation engine
  * Suggest and advise on data collection for continuing the data-driven
    analytics recommendation.

Statistics knowledge

  * Logistic regression
  * GLM regression
  * Bayesian models and reasoning
  * Direct experience with PGMs a plus*
  * Sampling
  * Principles of experiment design

Programming knowledge

  * R and/or Python ? 2 years experience minimum
  * SQL dialects.

Other skills:

  * Visualization (using a package like ggplot2 or matplotlib)
  * Good verbal communications skills
  * Domain expertise a plus

Please provide your information below:

Name* [                                                  ] Email*
[                                                  ] Phone
[                    ] Resume [                              ]
[Apply Now]
Please provide your information below:

Name* [                                                  ] Email*
[                                                  ] Phone
[                    ] Resume [                              ]
[Apply Now]
ThriveHive^TM ? 2016 Terms of Service Privacy Policy
?[g2-marketi] [Copy-of-20]
[my]

Log in to ThriveHive

Username: [                    ] Password: [                    ] Log in
Forgot your password? ?
*
