JavaScript is turned off in your web browser. Turn it on to take full advantage
of this site, then refresh the page.

Loading...
Skip to Main Content

Job Opportunities; Research Scientist / Research Investigator (67465)

Requisition ID 67465 - Posted 24/10/2016 - US - United States - Cincinnati,
Ohio - Science and Technology - Regular - Full-Time
?  Job Description Print Preview
Apply Apply using LinkedIn? Save Job Email Job to Friend Return to List

 
[GIV_Tree]
[GIV_Grow_S] [GIV_LM_Oli]
Research Scientist / Research Investigator

Your Future Position?

 

At Givaudan Flavors, the world leader in the flavors industry, our renowned
Science plus Technology (S+T) organization is responsible for discovering new
flavor materials, developing effective production processes, ensuring the
proper release of flavors through leading-edge delivery systems & encapsulation
technologies, and creating tools to support Flavor Creation. The primary focus
includes proprietary ingredient discovery & development, flavour performance
knowledge & systems, and Sensory science. The mission strategy is to ensure
technology innovation leadership for Givaudan and deliver product superiority
and superior customers? experience through: A focused research portfolio;
Alignment w/ business strategy; Global and cross-functional team collaboration;
Continuous, rapid innovation and; intelligent risk-taking.

 

We are specifically looking for an individual who has a strong chemistry
background dedicated to flavour release and flavour performance. You will serve
as the technical expert for study of flavor interaction with food matrices and
flavour stability in various processes. This will include designing analytical
approaches for data collection, analyzing data, establishing prediction models
and maintenance of reference databases. We are looking for a person who has
capacity to lead flavor performance program. You will also be the in-house
expert to promote flavour performance programs to flavour creation community in
the regions. Furthermore you will contribute to the development and validation
of creation tools through analytical measurement and sensory evaluation, and
extend our knowledge base in real-time measurement and upfront aroma
measurement.

 

Showcase your Technical Expertise: Design and execute experimental studies
focused on flavor performance and flavour release. Connect dots to develop
prediction modelling for flavour release in various matrices. Work closely with
sensory, analytical, creation community and IT for validation and
implementation of prediction modeling.

 

Share and Contribute:  Share knowledge through project engagement, presentation
and training in flavour release and performance program as well as real-time
monitoring of flavour release profiles. Contribute to creation tools projects
and vision.

 

Collaborate: Collaborate with internal multidiscipline team and external
collaborators. Build the foundational research portfolio via opportunity
investigations through ideation and collaboration with internal teams and
external experts. Manage and build relationship with partners to drive flavour
performance programs.

 

You?

Are you someone who wants to grow and shape your own world?  Who thrives being
in a culture where you can express yourself in a creative team environment? 
Who wants to collaborate and work in a team as passionate as you?  Then come
join us - and impact your world.

 

Your professional profile includes:

  * Ph.D. degree in chemistry with one to ten years relevant (industry)
    experience
  * Profound knowledge in analytical and physical chemistry, especially
    chromatography, multi-phase partition, binding and adsorption,is required.
  * Proven track record in foundational research and problem-solving ability
    for complex systems is required.
  * Skills and knowledge in data analytics, prediction model, data structure
    and database are strong plus.
  * Strong background in organic chemistry and understanding flavourinteraction
    are plus.
  * Knowledge in natural product and food chemistry are assets.
  * Excellent personal skills to manage projects with multicultural and
    multi-disciplined teams. Effective communication skills to articulate
    approaches, solutions and visions.

 

Givaudan Flavors is an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.  M/F/D/V

 

Your future employer?

Givaudan is the global leader in the creation of flavours and fragrances. In
close collaboration with food, beverage, consumer product and fragrance
partners, Givaudan develops tastes and scents that delight consumers the world
over. With a passion to understand consumers? preferences and a relentless
drive to innovate, Givaudan is at the forefront of creating flavours and
fragrances that ?engage your senses?. The Company achieved sales of
CHF 4.4 billion in 2015. Headquartered in Switzerland with local presence in
over 80 locations, the company has more than 9,500 employees worldwide.
Givaudan invites you to discover more at www.givaudan.com.

 

Apply Apply using LinkedIn? Save Job Email Job to Friend Return to List
Email this job to a friend
 

    ?

 
 

    ?
    The job has been sent to

 

                     Please provide the information below
             Job title:              
        *Your email address:         [                                        ]
   *Your friend?s email address:     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
              Message:               [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
         Verification code:          
*Please enter the verification code  
             see here:

Send Cancel
