Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Counterterrorism Communications Data Scientist

Counterterrorism Communications Data Scientist

# of Openings 
    1

Job Locations 
    US-District Of Columbia-Washington, DC

Category 
    Professional Services

Agency/Project 
    Dept. of State

Job ID 
    2016-1682

More information about this job:

Overview:

OBXtek is an award winning Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business
providing information technology and management services to the federal
government. As the prime contractor on over 85% of its work, OBXtek is a leader
in its field and has a robust corporate infrastructure that provides support
for all of its programs.

Responsibilities:

OBXtek is staffing for a Counterterrorism Communications Data Scientist to work
at the Department of State in Washington, DC to develop and implement a
structured methodology to identify meaningful metrics and data sources in order
to support online operations to counter violent extremism and measure the
impact and effectiveness of those operations.  Specifically, CSCC is tasked to
conduct overt interactive online engagements with text, graphics and video in
multiple languages, including but not limited to Arabic, Urdu, Somali and
English.  These engagements are attributed to the U.S. Department of State and
support specific and regional objectives derived from the National Strategy for
Counterterrorism. 

 

The purpose of this position is to conduct overt, interactive, online
engagements with text, graphics and video in multiple languages, including but
not limited to Arabic, Urdu, Somali and English.  These engagements are
attributed to the U.S. Department of State and support specific and regional
objectives derived from the National Strategy for Counterterrorism. 

  * Identify metrics and sets of data sources to support the online
    communications activities and to evaluate the effectiveness of those
    activities.

  * Apply expertise in social media analytics and use appropriate metrics and
    techniques: (a) Develop and maintain statistics related to output and
    outcomes; (b) identify the most effective communication techniques and
    activities related to target audiences; (c) assist and train team members
    in identifying those social media tools, platforms, and approaches most
    likely to produce positive outcomes for the team.

  * Use appropriate metrics and techniques, and with the assistance of and/or
    in coordination with other Government agencies and contractors, help to
    identify and improve data-related tools to support and develop online
    activities, assist in their implementation, and train staff in their use.

  * Advise and support the IT Office and/or outside contractors with the
    development and implementation of a new database for engagements, ensuring
    that the database product created collects and stores all relevant and
    appropriate data and incorporates or permits analysis to support CSCC
    needs.

  * Collaborate with CSCC, Department of State and other agency specialists in
    assessment and evaluation in measuring the effectiveness of CSCC
    communications activities.

  * Prepare and present oral briefings and written reports and other
    deliverables as required. 

Qualifications:

Must be a US Citizen and have a current Top Secret Clearance with SCI
eligibility.

 

This position is more about skills than a particular educational background. 
The individual selected will have a good command of statistics, suitable for
analysis of target audiences and interactive online engagements. 

 

A strong understanding of principal social media platforms and associated
analytic tools, together with the ability to quickly learn new social media
platforms as they are introduced, is essential. 

 

Other required skills are broad familiarity with a range of analytic and
database tools, and the ability to identify new tools and quickly learn how to
use them; excellent native or near-native English language ability; strong
writing skills, especially the ability to convey data-focused concepts in
non-technical language for peers, senior officials, and outside audiences;
strong verbal communication skills; willingness to work to tight deadlines;
ability to work effectively as part of a multicultural and interagency team;
command of Microsoft Office applications. 

 

The best qualified candidate should have the following skills:

  * Conduct capability based assessments

  * Coordinate Threat Assessments and Input

  * Analyze/develop operational concepts

Highly desirable skills:

Experience or training in international affairs, especially including the
Middle East/Africa/South Asia regions, and in counterterrorism and countering
violent extremism; reading knowledge of Arabic a plus. 

 

The ideal candidate will be flexible, adept at multitasking, and able and
willing to build new skills and knowledge in a rapidly evolving political and
technical environment. 

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
Share on your newsfeed
#Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

