Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Associate Data Scientist

Associate Data Scientist

Req # 
    9082

# of Openings 
    1

Job Locations 
    US-MA-Bedford

Posted Date 
    12/6/2016

Job Posting Category 
    Software Development

More information about this job:

Overview:

?Enabling every process plant to achieve Operations Excellence? is the
AspenTech vision. Founded more than 30 years ago by the best and brightest
engineers at MIT, we continue to imagine and invent new ways to bring
efficiency to the process industry. Today, AspenTech is thriving with our
relentless focus on innovation, collaboration, and execution combined with
world-class experts who speak more than 10 languages and work in 30 different
offices worldwide. This is a place where people are fiercely passionate about
technology, a balanced lifestyle, and a desire to make a difference in the
process industries.

 

Our software tackles the most complex process manufacturing challenges,
creating value and improving profitability for our customers.  The industries
that drive our economies and touch our lives are optimized by aspenONE software
every day.  The world?s leading oil & gas, chemical, engineering &
construction, pharmaceutical, food, beverage, and consumer packaged goods
companies?including Dow Chemical, ExxonMobil, BASF, Shell, and many others?all
rely on AspenTech software to run their business.  With integrated aspenONE
software, process manufacturers can optimize their engineering, manufacturing,
and supply chains.  AspenTech customers are better able to achieve operational
excellence: increasing capacity and improving margins, reducing costs, and
becoming more energy efficient while ensuring safety and shrinking their carbon
footprint.

 

AspenTech is looking for an Associate Data Scientist to join our growing Asset
Performance Management team, building the next generation predictive analytics
solution for IoT and asset optimization. AspenTech has always pushed the limits
of technology and engineering. We are now embarking on the next evolution, from
process optimization to asset optimization, with global implications for the
IoT.  This is your opportunity to play an important role in this cutting edge
transformation.

Responsibilities:

  * Design, develop, maintain, and support new and existing engineering
    software applications.
  * Actively contribute to technical and functional design sessions.
  * Provide creative solutions when dealing with technology challenges.
  * Keep current with new and developing software technologies and assist in
    prototyping and determining the feasibility of implementing new
    technologies.

Qualifications:

  * BS in Computer Science or a related major.
  * Experience with Windows C#/.NET and Python development.
  * Experience with machine learning applications.
  * Experience with REST, data science algorithms and distributed computing is
    a plus.
  * Excellent interpersonal, communication, and presentation skills.
  * Demonstrated ability to convey complex information in a clear and concise
    manner.
  * English fluency (written and verbal) required.

 

AspenTech is an Equal Opportunity Employer.  Visit us at www.aspentech.com.

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
#Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

