Atos

[trusted-partner-for-your-digital-journey]

[Language  ] [go]
Vacancy Search

  * Atos
  * Search & Apply
  * Atos Job Alerts
  * My Profile
  * Open Application

Job Details

  * Apply for this job

Job Details

Sr Data Scientist

Reference no.
    225497
Country
    USA
Region
    US - TEXAS
City
    US - TEXAS - DALLAS
Position Type
    Professional
Job Area
    IT Support
Job Type
    Full Time
Company
    Atos

Company Information

Atos is a leader in digital services with annual revenue of ? 12 billion and
100,000 employees in 72 countries. Serving a global client base, Atos offers
Consulting & Systems Integration, Managed Services & BPO, Cloud, Big Data &
Cyber-security solutions. With deep technology expertise and industry
knowledge, Atos works with clients across many business sectors: Defense,
Financial Services, Health, Manufacturing, Media, Utilities, Public Sector,
Retail, Telecommunications, and Transportation.

Atos is focused on business technology that powers progress and helps
organizations to create their firm of the future. In addition, Atos is the
Worldwide Information Technology Partner for the Olympic & Paralympic Games and
operates under the brands Atos, Bull, Canopy, Unify and Worldline.

Atos offers a broad professional perspective and the opportunity to build a
rewarding career across either the technical or business paths. With our
worldwide presence and our broad range of professional services, Atos provides
training programs across all our competencies and markets worldwide for
employees in all stages of their career. In addition, we offer programs that
are focused on engaging and developing people who are at the beginning of their
career through internships and graduate opportunities. 
 
For more information, please see the Atos corporate web site:  www.atos.net.
 
Atos is an EEO employer, providing employment opportunity regardless of race,
color, religion, sex, age, national origin veteran status, disability or other
factors protected by law.

Job Description

The Sr. Data Science Consultant is responsible for helping Atos clients
understand and extract value from their data. Working both independently and as
part of a team, the Sr Data Science Consultant will be involved in all phases
of (Big Data) analytics projects including: question formulation, design,
research and development, implementation, and testing. The ideal candidate is
able to explore and understand data and build advanced analytical models
independently, then present and discuss the resulting models to any level of
audience.
The data scientist role is a self-directive role, requiring very high level of
initiative and investigative/detective capabilities in achieving goals/
objectives for business clients.
The Data Scientist uses scientific /analytical approaches to explore and
visualize available data, identifies gaps and needs for additional data, builds
/validates required analytic models (such as classification, clustering or
association, to name a few) for potential deployment/ implementation by
business clients in operations.
This role will require working on multiple projects simultaneously in
collaboration with various cross-functional teams. The Data Scientist will be
responsible for periodically providing data-driven insights and conclusions
through presentations and prototype demonstrations.
Responsibilities:
- Work with clients to gather and refine specific business problems and
scenarios and document analytical solution requirements
- Create and maintain documentation of technical requirements including use
cases
- Define the data requirements for specific business problems and Identify
sources of data in consultation with business clients (e.g., in-house data
store/warehouse, external data mart, etc.)
- Identify and resolve data/information gaps for meeting business objectives/
goals including data quality issues and sources (data feeds, the master data,
etc.), and identify training and validation datasets as appropriate
- Build multiple analytical models to solve specific business problems using
commercial or open source toolsets
- Work with stakeholders to establish minimum levels of performance criteria
for model selection
- Work with Business clients to Validate/Test subset of model(s) and obtain
approval for models that achieve specified business goals
- Report Analytical results in a variety of creative visual formats that
appropriately provides insights to business clients
- Define technical requests for Technical Specialists to perform, such as
detailed data linking or parallel processing requests.
 
*LI-POST

Job Requirements

Bachelor?s or Master?s degree in Industrial Engineering, Applied Mathematics,
Statistics, Computer Science or related fields (equivalent work experience
considered).
- 5 years + hands-on experience in one or more Statistical Methods, such as
machine learning, information retrieval, data mining, Text Mining, Natural
Language Processing, Web Analytics or similar.
- Experience with Java
- Experience with SQL and relational database programming and/or distributed
computing platforms and query interfaces such as MapReduce, Pig, Hive.
- Excellent verbal and written communication skills; ability to express complex
ideas to any level of audience.
- Strong team player capable of working in a demanding environment.
- Eager to learn and apply new technologies.
- Experience working with very large data sets, grouping together data and
visualizing results
- Familiarity with extracting data from Hadoop using frameworks like Hive and
from MPP platforms, experience with some Java / python / simple map-reduce jobs
development
- Experience with commercial modelling and simulation tools such as SAS
Enterprise Miner, SAS Visual Analytics, IBM SPSS Modeller, and open source
tools such as R, Weka.
- Analytical Reasoning Skills: Adept at mathematical reasoning, Applies
scientific experimentation to business problems
- Possess skills such as Analytical Model Design & Implementation,
Visualization/Report Design & Implementation
- Business skills: Some level of industry sector understanding, product
understanding and process understanding
- Strategic Thinking and Creativity Skills: See the Big Picture, have high
level of curiosity and willingness to experiment
- Communication Skills: Excellent Written and Verbal Skills, Ability to
communicate effectively with senior level executives clients
Desired:
- Ability to write production level code.
- Exposure to Big Data technologies (Hadoop, HDFS, Pig, Hive, etc.).
- Familiarity with NoSQL databases (e.g., HBase, Cassandra, Mongo DB).
- Experience with Tableau or other data visualization tools.
- Experience working with customers (consulting experience a plus).
- Diverse data set experience.
- Experience with PMML.
- Experience with Python or Scala

  * Apply for this job

  * Back to search results

? Atos SE 2013 all rights reserved.

Privacy Terms Of Use Sitemap

