Credit Acceptance Credit Acceptance

  • Customers
  • Dealers
  • Contact Us

  • Customers
      □ Page Icon Find Your Credit Approval
      □ Page Icon Make A Payment
      □ Page Icon Success Stories
  • Dealers
      □ Page Icon Become A Dealer
      □ Page Icon CAPS^® Login
      □ Page Icon Success Stories
  • Contact Us
      □ Page Icon Hours & Schedule
      □ Page Icon Locations
      □ Page Icon Feedback
  • About us
      □ Page Icon Careers
      □ Page Icon Investors
      □ Page Icon Community

[                              ]
[Everything]
Search
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Predictive Modeler/Sr Predictive Modeler (Statistician)

Building:                                                                            Headquarters
Location:                                                                            MI, Southfield
Department:                                                                          Predictive Analytics
Division:                                                                            Analytics
Salary:
Salary Basis:
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Description

                   Predictive Modeler/Sr Predictive Modeler

Credit Acceptance works with car dealers nationwide to enable them to sell
vehicles to customers on credit, regardless of their credit history. The
company’s motto, “We Change Lives!” speaks to team members’ pride in their
ability to make a difference in the lives of dealers and customers alike.

We offer a great work environment, awesome team members, competitive benefits,
progressive career opportunities, a casual dress code and we work hard to
ensure every team member is empowered to work to their fullest potential. 

We are hiring a Predictive Modeler within our Analytics Department. 

 

About this Position: 

  • Develop statistical models designed to optimize high volume decisions such
    as:
  • Call strategy and behavior scoring
  • Repossession decisions (repo/don’t repo and agent selection)
  • Resource allocation (optimal scheduling and forecasting)
  • Test and implement models and data infrastructure used to execute strategy
  • Actively monitor the performance of models in production
  • Analyze data to drive better business decisions
  • Develop complex programming to extract and manipulate data.

 

Our Predictive Modeler Team Members: 

  • Models and strategies: Develop, monitor, and maintain complex statistical
    models with the goal of optimizing high volume decisions to add intrinsic
    value to Credit Acceptance.
  • Reporting: Develop and produce reports to measure the performance of
    processes, models, and strategies.
  • Ad hoc analysis:  Perform analysis to solve business problems and drive
    better decisions.
  • Translate business requirements:  Translate high level business goals into
    the tasks and technical specifications needed to accomplish the goal.

                                                                                                                                                           

Position Qualifications: 

Required:

  • Bachelor’s degree or higher
  • 3+ years' experience developing predictive models
  • 3+ years' experience with SAS and SQL
  • SAS Programming experience (or similar software)

Preferred:

  • Experience in the consumer lending industry, with some preference given to
    automobile finance experience.
  • Recent small company experience.
  • Experience developing credit scorecards or collection scores.

 

Core Values:

To be successful in this role, Team Members need to demonstrate the
characteristics of PRIDE in their work:

  • Positive : Maintain a positive attitude by focusing on solutions and
    promoting a collaborative and enjoyable environment.
  • Respectful : Value teamwork, share successes, appreciates others and
    communicates in a way that promotes trust.
  • Insightful : Make timely well considered decisions, create innovative
    solutions and continuously learn.
  • Direct : Communicate clearly and objectively; don’t be afraid of difficult
    conversations. Raise concerns through the proper channels.
  • Earnest : Be honest, sincere and consistent. Work hard and pursue our goals
    together relentlessly.

 

Required degrees must have been earned at institutions of Higher Education
which are accredited by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation or
equivalent.

Credit Acceptance is an equal opportunity employer.


[Apply for this Position]                                                                                                                [Send to a Friend]

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Are you a returning applicant?


Previous Applicants:
                                       Email: [                    ]
[                    ] [                    ]
                                    Password: [                    ]
[Add to My Jobs]

If you do not remember your password click here.


Back to Search Results

New Search


  • Customers
      □ Find Your Credit Approval
      □ Make A Payment
      □ Success Stories
      □ FAQ
      □ Your Credit & Privacy
  • Dealers
      □ Become A Dealer
      □ CAPS^® Login
      □ CA University Login
      □ Success Stories
      □ FAQ
  • Contact Us
      □ Hours & Schedule
      □ Locations
      □ Feedback
  • About Us
      □ Careers
      □ Investors
      □ Community

  • Privacy Policy
  • NASDAQ: CACC

© Credit Acceptance Corporation. All rights reserved.

