

                                                             Bookmark and Share


Apply Now                       Tell A Friend                     Save This Job
  
Posting Date:                      1/9/2017
Job#:                              5388141
Employment Type:                   Full Time Regular
Category:                          Psychometric Services
Job Title:                         Sr Research Scientist
Location:                          Headquarters ? Oregon
  

NWEA has a new opening for Senior Research Scientist within our Psychometric
Services department located at  our downtown Portland location. For this
position, candidates who reside out of state should be willing to relocate to
Portland, OR. in order to work at our headquarters.  This is a full-time
opportunity with competitive compensation; an outstanding benefits package;
relocation assistance; and career growth opportunities.

Founded by educators nearly 40 years ago, Northwest Evaluation Association?
(NWEA?) is a global not-for-profit educational services organization known for
our flagship interim assessment, Measures of Academic Progress? (MAP?). More
than 7,600 partners in U.S. schools, school districts, education agencies, and
international schools trust us to offer pre-kindergarten through grade 12
assessments that accurately measure student growth and learning needs,
professional development that fosters educators? ability to accelerate student
learning, and research that supports assessment validity and data
interpretation. To better inform instruction and maximize every learner?s
academic growth, educators currently use NWEA assessments with nearly eight
million students.



Position summary

In this position  you will be responsible for providing oversight of the
psychometric qualities of NWEA?s testing programs and enhancing the
capabilities of the Research Team to provide research support to the
organization and its member agencies .In addition, you will have  
responsibility for leading research projects to support NWEA?s Research Agenda
that includes, but not limited to, developing new adaptive testing approaches
and new reports, prototyping new test types and features and innovative item
styles. This position requires in-depth knowledge of testing theory and
psychometrics, strong quantitative, analytical and organizational skills,
extensive research and RFP/contract development experience, and strong
communication and presentation skills. This position requires working with
multiple functional groups within NWEA as well as interacting with external
clients.

Typical Responsibilities

? Leading operational and research projects that support NWEA?s research agenda
and development road map; validate the efficacy of new products and services
that enhance NWEA?s capabilities to assess the growth of student achievement;
and contribute to theory and practice in measurement and assessment
? Planning, coordinating, leading, and performing statistical analyses for
basic or complex projects and other work assignments including, but not limited
to, sampling design, DIF analysis, item calibration, linking, scaling, and
equating.
? Designing, developing, and documenting technical and operational procedures
and statistical guidelines for assigned area
? Leading the development of new computer-based test types and features
? Developing alternate and innovative assessment procedures to validly measure
student achievement
? Providing guidance to junior staff in completing their work and acquiring
skills
? Ensuring quality control of deliverables
? Independently providing consulting support to both internal and external
clients
? Representing organization?s position on technical issues to clients, external
boards and panels, professional associations, and other agencies
? Maintaining a program of research, publication and presentations at
professional conferences on issues affecting NWEA?s business
? Accountable for basic and complex statistical design and analysis decision
such as advanced statistical modeling, sampling design, and psychometrics
? Participating in the preparation of RFP/contract proposal
? Performing other duties as assigned to ensure the success of the team and the
entire organization



Skills and abilities

? Strong knowledge in psychometric techniques?including classical test theory,
item response theory, test equating, scaling, and linking. Knowledge of
Multidimensional Item Response Theory, Cognitive Diagnostic Models, and/or
linear programming is a plus
? Demonstrated proficiency with computer programming and use of computer
software packages commonly used in psychometric work or research (e.g., SPSS,
SAS, WINSTEPTS, R, BILOG, MULTILOG, PARSCALE, C++, FORTRAN)
? Ability to work with cross-functional teams to design and implement new
assessment models
? Ability to conduct independent research in psychometrics, assessment or
applied statistics
? Demonstrated understanding of growth and/or diagnostic assessment models
? Demonstrated ability to analyze large data sets in an efficient manner
? Ability to explain complex measurement and statistical concepts to a variety
of audiences
? Ability to work collaboratively and provide innovative solutions
? Experience with face-to-face interactions with clients
? Excellent written and verbal communication skills

Education and Experience

? A Ph.D. in Educational Measurement, Statistics, Psychometrics, Psychological
Measurement, or a related field with an emphasis on quantitative analysis or
psychometrics is required
? Five-plus years of progressively independent substantive research in the
above areas including experience in large-scale K-12 assessment field and
computer-based testing
? Relevant experience developing practical solutions to applied educational
assessment problems and working as a lead investigator on large-scale
educational testing projects
? Experience in Cognitive Diagnostic Assessment and linear programming is a
plus
? Demonstrated professional achievement through presentations at professional
conferences and publications in professional journals or equivalent
? Extensive experience in research and consulting is required
? Experience with providing face-to-face consulting to clients
? Experience in RFP/contract development. 
? Excellent written and verbal communication skills. Strong presentation and
interpersonal skills including working effective in teams



Benefits

NWEA?s generous benefits package includes: 100% employer paid medical, dental
and vision insurance for eligible employees; company-paid public
transportation, indoor bicycle racks, and free on-site parking; convenient
location near public transportation near the Pearl District in downtown
Portland; additional monthly compensation in the form of flex pay; and a 15%
annual employer contribution toward our 403b retirement plan. In addition,
NWEA?s culture promotes work-life balance. Accordingly, we offer 4 weeks? PTO
in the first year, 5 weeks? PTO after the first year anniversary, and 6 weeks?
PTO after the second year anniversary and in subsequent years. Our employees
also enjoy flexible work schedules.

 
NWEA is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, and we do not
discriminate against employees or job applicants on the basis of race, color,
national origin, age, religion, gender, disability, sexual orientation, veteran
status, or any other status or consideration protected by local, state and
federal laws, except where a bona fide occupational qualification applies.
Equal opportunity applies to hiring, promotion, training, compensation, and any
other organizational action. NWEA's written Affirmative Action Plan is
available to all employees and job applicants upon request.
  
Apply Now                       Tell A Friend                     Save This Job
  

Search Jobs        My Saved Jobs          Create An Account            Login

