Comtech LLC

Senior Research Scientist /Data Scientist

  * Seattle, WA
  * Full-time

Company Description

Comtech is a woman-owned small business founded in 1998 and headquartered in
Reston, VA. We offer IT solutions across the disciplines of program/project
management, applications development, infrastructure, Cyber security, and
enterprise content/data management services. We have developed our
methodologies and processes based on the IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL) v.3
Framework across enterprise infrastructure operations. These methodologies and
processes are reinforced through our organization?s externally accredited
certifications, which include ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management System (QMS),
ISO/IEC 20000-1:2011 IT Service Management Systems (SMS, corporate ITIL
certification), ISO 27001:2005 Information Security Management System (ISMS),
and CMMI-DEV Level 3"

Job Description

We are looking for an Senior Research Scientist who can work on different
aspects of the video content, like text metadata, video, audio and images to
apply from variety of techniques in computer vision, deep learning, machine
learning and image processing algorithms to build content risk inspection
systems. You will be contributing to a platform from the very early stages
which will process terabytes of video content data. You will collaborate with
other research scientist across our company to define the scope of the product,
identify and initiate investigations of new technologies, prototype, test
solutions and ability to web-lab performance between different approaches that
generates a high-precision, low latency prediction models and deliver an
exceptional customer experience. You will work closely with the software
development teams to build robust vision-based solutions for customer-facing
applications. You should be comfortable with a large degree of ambiguity and
relish the idea of solving problems that, frankly, haven?t been solved at scale
before. Along the way, we guarantee that you?ll learn a ton, have fun and make
a positive impact on millions of people.

Qualifications

Basic Qualifications

  * PhD in Computer Science, Machine Learning, Operational Research, Statistics
    or a related quantitative field
  * Depth and breadth in state-of-the-art computer vision and machine learning
    technologies
  * 5+ years of hands-on experience in predictive modelling and analysis
  * Strong algorithm development experience
  * Skills with Java, C++, or other programming language, as well as with R,
    MATLAB, Python or similar scripting language

Preferred Qualifications

  * 10+ years of relevant experience in industry and/or academia.
  * Publications at top-tier peer-reviewed conferences or journals
  * Proven track record of innovation in creating novel algorithms and
    advancing the state of the art
  * Depth and breadth in state-of-the-art computer vision and machine learning
    technologies

Contact:
Nayan Hazare
IT Recruiter at Comtech LLC
Call: 703 962 6656
Email: nhazare@ comtechllc .com

Additional Information

** Please share me your updated word copy of Resume.

*** I Appreciate, if you can  refer  someone who is looking for this position.

Contact- 703-962-6656

I'm interested
I'm interestedRefer a friend
Nayan Hazare

Posted by

Nayan Hazare

share this job

  *  
  *  
  *  
  *  

Powered by 

[104103373]
