Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Analysis - Reports Support

Data Analysis - Reports Support

Job ID 
    2017-1802

Job Location(s) 
    US-LA-Metairie

Category 
    Administrative/Clerical

More information about this job:

Overview:

 

Cannon Cochran Management Services, Inc. (CCMSI) is a leading Third Party
Administrator in self-insurance services headquartered in Danville, IL.  We are
guided by core values including integrity, insisting on excellence and being
passionately focused on customer service.  Those values, coupled with our
Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP), engage ownership with our employees and
offers top of the line customer service for both our internal and external
clients. 

 

This is a perfect opportunity to work in a growing, dynamic work environment. 
CCMSI’s emphasis is on customer service and you will be expected to set and
achieve performance goals in a challenging and growing team environment. 

 

The Data Analysis -Reports Support position is responsible for providing all
clients, Internal and External, with professional, prompt, and accurate
service, working in the following custom CCMSI Programs; CAST, Legacy Admin,
Claims Admin, Help Spot, Report Manager, and iCE.

Responsibilities:

  • Project Ticket management; assigning and completing project tickets for
    Claims Report Data.
  • Maintain Claims Report/File Request project box, review all request, either
    completing them in ICE; My Reports or assigning to Reports programmer.
  • Reviewing Report request, building reports in My Reports, Training staff
    members and some client on how to build, schedule and balance My Reports.
  • Month-end Report posting, printing and mailing.
  • Generate and distribute Daily/Weekly Reports.
  • Management and Supervisor high level special reports.
  • Backup support for iCE program via phone and email.
  • Mentor internal users on how to extract their clients’ information from iCE
  • Performs other duties as assigned.

Qualifications:

Good communication and interpersonal skills.  Ability to coordinate and
prioritize.  Ability to participate in a team environment in a rapidly changing
environment.  Flexibility, initiative and ability to work with minimal direct
supervision required.  Individual must be detail oriented and a self-starter
with strong organizational abilities. 

 

Customer Service Unit-Requirements:

Customer Service Unit is a high pace, multi task unit; this position requires
that employee after trained work with minimum direction on job task,
prioritizing and assistance from other team members. Knowledge of task and
skills are crucial to maintain this level within the department.

 

Education and/or Experience                                                    
               

High School graduate or equivalent

 

Computer Skills                                                               

Proficient using Microsoft Office products including Word, Excel, Outlook, etc.

 

Certificates, Licenses, Registrations

None required

  

Physical Demands

The physical demands described here are representative of those that must be
met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this job.
Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities
to perform the essential functions.

 

Object Handling Categories

Work requires the ability to lift/carry objects routinely as follows:

  • Light Lifting: No lifting of objects weighing more than 15 pounds on a
    regular basis.  

Other Physical Demands

  • Work requires the ability to stoop, bend, reach and grab with arms and
    hands, manual dexterity. 

CORE VALUES & PRINCIPLES

Responsible for upholding the CCMSI Core Values & Principles which include:
performing with integrity; passionately focus on client service; embracing a
client-centered vision; maintaining contagious enthusiasm for our clients;
searching for the best ideas; looking upon change as an opportunity; insisting
upon excellence; creating an atmosphere of excitement, informality and trust;
focusing on the situation, issue, or behavior, not the person; maintaining the
self-confidence and self-esteem of others; maintaining constructive
relationships; taking the initiative to make things better; and leading by
example.

 

CCMSI is an Affirmative Action / Equal Employment Opportunity employer offering
an excellent benefit package including Medical, Dental, Prescription Drug,
Vision, Flexible Spending, Life, ESOP and 401K.  

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

