Skip to Main content
AmeriHealth Caritas

  • Home
  • Careers
  • Contact
  • News & Media

Latest News:

  • Supplier diversity program wins award
  • New partners: Keystone VIP Choice, Penn Medicine
  • LA Medicaid open enrollment under way
  • CEO Rashid named to NIH advisory council

Previous Button Next Button

  • Our Company
      □ Our Focus
      □ Company Executives
      □ Family of Companies
      □ Corporate Governance
      □ Health Care Reform
  • Our Solutions
      □ Behavioral Healthcare
      □ Care Management
      □ Medicaid Managed Care
      □ Medicare Advantage
      □ PBM Services
      □ TPA Services
  • Who We Serve
      □ Our Expertise
      □ Members
      □ Providers
      □ Government
      □ Supplier Services
  • Health Outreach
      □ Better Futures
      □ Dental Care
      □ Children's Wellness
      □ Weight Loss
      □ Women's Health

Careers

  • Search Job Openings
  • Our Focus
  • Our Mission and Vision
  • Recruiting FAQs
  • Life at AmeriHealth Caritas
  • Find a College Internship

Home > Careers
Text size: Default Text Size Medium Text Size Large Text Size
Share
Print this page Print
Email this page Email
Share on Facebook Facebook
Share on Twitter Twitter
Share on LinkedIn LinkedIn
Share on LinkedIn Google+
Share on Reddit Reddit
Share on Digg Digg

Search Job Openings

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Data Scientist

Location:                                 Philadelphia, PA
ID**:                                     10562
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Description

Your career starts now. We’re looking for the next generation of health care
leaders.

At AmeriHealth Caritas, we’re passionate about helping people get care, stay
well and build healthy communities. As one of the nation's leaders in health
care solutions, we offer our associates the opportunity to impact the lives of
millions of people through our national footprint of products, services and
award-winning programs. AmeriHealth Caritas is seeking talented, passionate
individuals to join our team. Together we can build healthier communities. If
you want to make a difference, we’d like to hear from you.

Headquartered in Philadelphia, AmeriHealth Caritas is a mission-driven
organization with more than 30 years of experience. We deliver comprehensive,
outcomes-driven care to those who need it most. We offer integrated managed
care products, pharmaceutical benefit management and specialty pharmacy
services, behavioral health services, and other administrative services.
Discover more about us at www.amerihealthcaritas.com.

Responsibilities: 

Develops analyses and models based on complex operational, economic and
statistical data to solve new and complex problems, develop innovative
strategies, quantify the competitive performance of the organization’s
operations and/or markets, and evaluate the potential impact of changes. 
Develop analyses and models based on complex operational, economic and
statistical data to quantify the competitive performance of business segments,
evaluate potential operational changes, and design new approaches and
methodologies.  Defines problems, collects data, applies advanced economic and
mathematical concepts, establishes facts and draws valid conclusions.  Applies
an in-depth understanding of advanced mathematical concepts, operations and
statistics to solve new and complex problems and develop innovative
strategies.  Develops reports for management on the overall performance of
business segments and develops metrics to measure various characteristics of
the business.  Analyzes historical operations and market information using
business software packages and statistical software tools, and develops models
to predict future outcomes.

 

Education & Experience:

  • Master Degree in Statistics or Mathematics
  • Five to ten years experience in developing predictive models in healthcare
    or life sciences setting using SAS JMP or Enterprise Miner.

 


[Apply for this Position]                                    [Send to a Friend]

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Are you a returning applicant?


Previous Applicants:
                                       Email: [                    ]
[                    ] [                    ]
                                    Password: [                    ]
[Add to My Jobs]

If you do not remember your password click here.


Back to Search Results

New Search


  • Awards and Accreditations
  • Cost Savings
  • Grassroots Advocacy
  • Health Equity

  • Health Care Reform
  • Health Literacy
  • Outcomes-based Care
  • Provider-Friendly Partner

  • Unique Programs
  • Site Map
  • Print

 
Visit our facebook page Visit our Twitter page. Visit our Linked-in page.


© 2013 AmeriHealth Caritas. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy and Terms of
Use.
