Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist 3

Data Scientist 3

Job ID 
    16-7196

Job Location 
    US-CA-San Diego

Type 
    Regular Hire

More information about this job

Company Overview

Mitchell International, Inc. is a leading provider of information and workflow
solutions to the Property & Casualty Claims and Automotive Collision Repair
industries. Founded in 1946, Mitchell has delivered advanced information and
technology solutions to over 100,000 customers throughout North America,
helping them to improve their business process performance. The company's
comprehensive solution portfolio streamlines the entire auto physical damage,
bodily injury and workers' compensation claims processes. Mitchell was recently
named by the San Diego Business Journal as the No. 1 Software Company in San
Diego, based on the number of full-time employees, which is approaching the
2,000 milestone. The company offers a competitive compensation and benefits
package including outstanding career growth opportunities and has been
recognized as one of the Fastest Growing Companies in San Diego.

Job Description

We are looking for a Data Scientist that will help us discover the information
hidden in vast amounts of data (Text and/or Image), and help us make smarter
decisions to deliver even better products. Your primary focus will be in
applying machine learning technologies, doing statistical analysis, and
building high quality prediction systems integrated with our products.

 

  • Selecting features, building and optimizing classifiers using machine
    learning techniques
  • Data mining using state-of-the-art methods
  • Extending company’s data with third party sources of information when
    needed
  • Enhancing data collection procedures to include information that is
    relevant for building analytic systems
  • Processing, cleansing, and verifying the integrity of data used for
    analysis
  • Doing ad-hoc analysis and presenting results in a clear manner
  • Creating automated anomaly detection systems and constant tracking of its
    performance

Qualifications

  • 3+ years commercial machine learning experience.
  • Solid foundation in machine learning, data structures, algorithms, and
    software design.
  • A strong understanding of machine learning theory.
  • Excellent understanding of machine learning techniques and algorithms, such
    as k-NN, Naive Bayes, SVM, Decision Forests, etc.
  • Experience with common data science toolkits, such as scikit-learn, Google
    tensorflow, R, Weka, NumPy, MatLab, Excellence in at least two of these is
    highly desirable
  • Great communication skills
  • Proficiency in using query languages such as SQL, PL/SQL, Hive, Pig or
    PostgreSQL.
  • Experience with NoSQL databases, such as MongoDB, Cassandra, HBase is a
    plus
  • Good applied statistics skills, such as distributions, statistical testing,
    regression, etc.
  • Good scripting and programming skills. Expert at Python and/or Java.
  • Data-oriented personality
  • Experience with data visualization tools, such as D3.js, GGplot is a plus.

Options

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

