Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Assoc Dir Data Scientist

Assoc Dir Data Scientist

Requisition ID 
    2017-9628

Job Locations 
    US-NJ-Princeton

Opportunity Details:

Overview:

Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development & Commercialization, Inc. (OPDC) is an
innovative, fast-growing healthcare company that discovers and develops new
compounds that address unanswered medical needs and advance human health. With
a strong focus on neuroscience, oncology, and cardio-renal treatments, OPDC is
dedicated to improving the health and quality of human life. For more
information, visit www.otsuka-us.com.   

 

OPDC is a subsidiary of Otsuka America, Inc. (OAI), a holding company
established in the U.S. in 1989. OAI is wholly owned by Otsuka Pharmaceutical
Co., Ltd. The Otsuka Group employs approximately 42,000 people globally and its
products are available in more than 80 countries worldwide. Otsuka welcomes you
to visit its global website at https://www.otsuka.co.jp/en/.

Responsibilities:

Senior Manager/Associate Director Data Scientist with expertise in machine
learning, artificial intelligence, statistical data analytics, and
applications.  Must have an excellent knowledge of advanced methods, and
experience in applying those methods to a variety of applications.  Must be
agile to grow in new directions, work with a team of scientists and
practitioners from different functional areas to solve problems in
pharmaceuticals. 

  • Establish and implement end to end proof of concept for data analyses
    across functional areas
  • Create innovative methodologies for data 
  • Build proof of concept systems 
  • Establish strategic partnerships with technical leadership across
    functional areas
  • Presenting to senior leadership as well external audience
  • Demonstrates the ability to create new and different solutions that align
    to real work problems and opportunities
  • Proficiency in computer programming with excellent software development
    skills using state-of-the-art technologies and languages (C++, Java, R,
    Python, and other scripting languages)

Travel (approximately 15%)

Qualifications:

  • 3-5 years hands on experience in machine learning
  • Master’s Degree required and PhD strongly preferred in Computer Science,
    Statistics, or a related field with focus on data analysis
  • Command of principles of machine learning, statistical analysis, data
    mining algorithms, and mathematical modeling
  • Demonstrated ability to use knowledge of recent techniques, and develop new
    methodologies
  • Demonstrated experience in applying Machine Learning to at least one of the
    areas: Computer Vision, Natural Language Analysis or text analysis, large
    data sets, and social network analysis
  • Excellent software development skills, esp. in rapid prototyping
  • Established publication record
  • Excellent communication skills
  • Experience in machine learning on large size data using MapReduce and
    Hadoop preferred
  • Experience in health care data analytics preferred
  • Background in information security and privacy preferred

Apply or Share:

 
Apply Now!Apply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Back to Start/Home Page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

