Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Statistical Analyst

Statistical Analyst

Secondary Job Title 
    School of Infantry- East (SOI-E) Attrition Analyst

Category 
    Administrative

Job Location 
    US-NC-Camp Lejeune

Posted Date 
    1/5/2017

More information about this job:

Overview:

The School of Infantry Attrition Analyst will support accurate capture and
reporting of student physical performance and attrition while attending the
Schools of Infantry East to the TECOM Project Lead. The Attrition analyst will
work independently and without direct or daily supervision to identify, record
and report attrition by MOS and event. Close collaboration with the on-site
Government personnel is mandatory, but the Government will not provide any
oversight and will not have tasking authority.

 

The candidate must have the ability to operate effectively under pressure
adhering to the ProSol Core Values of Agility: rapid adaptation to the changing
requirements and environment of our clients; Excellence: Service quality that
exceeds the expectations of our clients; Integrity: Accountability and
honesty−always doing the right thing; and Long Term Commitment: Unquestioned
loyalty and dedication to our clients, partners and employees.

Responsibilities:

This position requires close collaboration with Active Duty counterparts and
ProSol's SOI (West) Attrition Analyst to standardize, collect and report data
using Excel spreadsheets and MS Word. Data is pulled from within the Marine
Corps Training Information Management System (MCTIMS) and from SOI
counterparts. This position requires intermediate knowledge of and experience
with data collection, analysis methods, and tools and data reporting. A solid
understanding of Marine Corps mission, training and values is essential.

 

Duties will include:

  • Independent working to identify, compile, organize, enter, and report SOI
    attrition data and results of present and emerging physical assessments to
    TECOM
  • Compile and track results of Military Occupational Specialty (MOS) Specific
    Physical Assessments.
  • Provide weekly compiled results (at a minimum reflecting: Event, Training
    Day, time, attempt number, outcome [pass or fail], and failure reason; if
    failed, the maximum weight or time achieved, percentage passed, and
    percentage failed to the TECOM Project Lead.
  • Design reliable and valid evaluation tools and instruments.
  • Data management responsibilities include: Collect evaluation data; Conduct
    data entry
  • Observe MOS physical fitness-related events to collect data and to
    recommend better testing and collection methods.
  • Prepare data for analysis (data cleaning).
  • Draw valid conclusions from varied data sources.
  • Draft reports, briefings, and other documents, reporting data from SOI
    training efforts.
  • Present data in varied methods for diverse audiences.
  • Develop a reporting format and provide monthly task order progress and
    weekly activity reports to the designated ProSol Program Manager

Qualifications:

  • Areas of competence:
      □ Statistical analysis,
      □ Trend analysis,
      □ Individual learning evaluation,
      □ Ability to draw valid conclusions from data,
      □ Data reporting and presentation.
  • Excellent written and oral communication skills.
  • Thorough knowledge of Marine Corps training techniques and physical
    requirements
  • In-depth experience using the Marine Corps Training Information Management
    System (MCTIMS)

Education & Experience Requirements:

  • Associate’s degree and minimum documented 3 years’ experience in program
    evaluation and quantitative and qualitative data analysis and reporting
  • Bachelor’s degree; preferred
  • Documented experience in data analysis or support of the Marine Corps.

Language Skills & Proficiency:

None

Security Clearance:

None

Additional Clearance Information:

  • Must be able to obtain a Public Trust and be issued a CAC
  • Secret clearance, preferred

Physical Demands:

Work is primarily performed in an office environment. Typically employees sit
comfortably to do their work, interspersed by brief periods of standing,
walking, bending, carrying papers and books, and extensive periods requiring
the use of computer terminals to accomplish work objectives.

Schedule:

  • Monday - Friday

Standard Work Hours:

  • 8 hour work days; during core hours established by the contract

Travel Expectations:

  • N/A

Travel Schedule:

  • N/A

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

