Skip to content
Cisco logo

  * Search Jobs Home
  * All of Cisco

Search Jobs

  * Job Opportunities
      + Jobs: Big Data, Analytics
      + Jobs: Corporate Functions, Information Technology
      + Jobs: Cloud, Data Center, SDN
      + Jobs: Collaboration, Video
      + Jobs: Consulting, Services
      + Jobs: Engineering, Development
      + Jobs: Internet of Everything
      + Jobs: Mobility, Wireless
      + Jobs: Sales, Marketing
      + Jobs: Security
  * University
  * Careers Home
  * My Profile

  * Select Language
      + English
      + French

Join Our Talent Network
Search by Keyword [                    ] [Search Jobs] Advanced Search
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Email similar jobs to me
[                    ] [Subscribe] 
Share this Job

Data Scientist (Procurement)

Apply now ?
Apply now

    Email [                    ] Start
  * Please wait...
    Loading

Date: Jan 5, 2017

Location: Raleigh, NC, US

Company: Cisco Systems, Inc.

Additional Location(s) or Information: Research Triangle Park

Job Category: Business Strategy

Level of Experience: Experienced - Non Manager

Requisition #: R1023872

 

Description:

What You'll Do
Design, develop and deliver actionable insights to drive growth, improve
retention, develop products and increase profitability. Use statistical
analysis, data mining and predictive analytics techniques to understand
business behavior and identify trends.

Who You'll Work With
Global Procurement Services (GPS) serves the Cisco business functions as the
supply chain manager and procurement arm for all non-production, indirect and
services spend. GPS is dedicated to strong supplier development and category
management capabilities spend management, procurement operations, supplier
diversity and procurement risk management. GPS provides an exceptional working
and learning environment in which to build careers.

Who You Are
The perfect candidate will have a background in a quantitative or technical
field, will have experience working with large data sets, and will have some
experience in data-driven decision making. You are focused on results, a
self-starter, and have demonstrated success in using analytics to drive the
understanding, growth, and success of a product.
The ideal candidate has deep skills in one or more areas mentioned below, and
is passionate about solving real-world problems. We are looking for those
select few who thrive in a dynamic environment, have big ideas and goals, and
believe in experimenting ideas rather than talking about them.

Essential Duties and Responsibilities:
? Identify appropriate analytical tools and methods. Use advanced knowledge of
business analysis to perform basic to highly complex quantitative analyses and
modeling in order to help our stakeholders make the right buying decision
either in terms of the pricing or supplier choice.
? Leverage tools, existing data and new data to develop robust quantitative
models. These models would help us detect anomalies and possibly prevent
fraudulent activities across payments data. Using these models we intend to
identify buying patterns and behaviors of consumers and optimize buying
channels to streamline Source-to-Pay operations.
? Interpret the results of analyses to drive insight. Communicate and explain
the results of analyses to business partners in a way that is actionable and is
aligned to their primary goals and business outcomes.

The Data Scientist Analytics role has work across the following four areas:
? Core Operations
o Forecasting and setting goals
o Monitoring key service metrics, understanding root causes of changes in
metrics
o Building and analyzing dashboards and reports
o Building key data sets to empower operational and exploratory analysis
? Exploratory Analysis
o Understanding ecosystems, user behaviors, and long-term trends
o Identifying new levers to help move key metrics
o Building models of user behaviors for deeper analysis
? Service Leadership
o Influencing service owners through presentation of data-based recommendations
o Communicating state of business, experiment results, etc. to stakeholders
? Data Infrastructure
o Working in Hadoop and Hive primarily, sometimes MySQL, Oracle, and Teradata
o Automating analyses and authoring pipelines via SQL and python based ETL
framework

Our Minimum requirements for this role:
? Platforms: R, MATLAB, H2O, SPSS or SAS.
? Databases/DW: Hadoop, Oracle, and Teradata
? Machine Learning packages - Caffe, Theano
? Programming Languages: SQL, Python, Java, Scala or C/C++
? 4-6 years? experience in the field of analytics and data science.
? 8-10 years? experience within the overall BI/Data Architecture field.

Our Desired Skills for this role are:

? You are curious, have a research mindset, love bringing logic and structure
to loosely defined unstructured problems and ideas.
? You have an understanding of statistical and predictive modeling concepts,
machine-learning approaches, clustering and classification techniques, and
recommendation and optimization algorithms.
? Preferably have a degree in a quantitative discipline such as Statistics,
Physics, Economics, Applied Math, Computer Science, Operations Research, or
Computational Sciences, with coursework and projects in machine learning and
data analysis.

Why Cisco
We connect everything: people, processes, data, and things. We innovate
everywhere, taking bold risks to shape the technologies that give us smart
cities, connected cars, and handheld hospitals. And we do it in style with
unique personalities who aren?t afraid to change the way the world works,
lives, plays and learns.

We are thought leaders, tech geeks, pop culture aficionados, and we even have a
few purple haired rock stars. We celebrate the creativity and diversity that
fuels our innovation. We are dreamers and we are doers.

We Are Cisco.

 

Job Type: Experienced

Opportunity Category: *None

Apply now ?
Apply now

    Email [                    ] Start
  * Please wait...
    Loading

Find similar jobs:
Postes : Internet of Everything Carri?res, Postes : Fonctions d'entreprise,
Technologies de l'information, Jobs: Internet of Everything, Jobs: Internet of
Everything, Jobs: Corporate Functions, Information Technology
Cisco is an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer and all qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, genetic
information, age, disability, veteran status, or any other legally protected
basis.

  * Update Applicant Resume/CV
  * Agency Portal
  * Top Job Searches
  * View All Jobs

  * Accessibility for Applicants with Disabilities
  * E-Verify Participation Poster
  * Right to Work Poster

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  * Help
  * Terms & Conditions
  * Privacy Statement
  * Cookie Policy
  * Trademarks

Connect with us

  * LinkedIn
  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * Pinterest
  * YouTube
  * Weibo
  * Instagram

