photo Grail Logo_zpsrxbbe4qj.png


Position:  MACHINE LEARNING (and in particular DEEP LEARNING) SPECIALIST
Location:  Redwood City, CA
Job Id:  164
# of Openings:   1
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MACHINE LEARNING (and in particular DEEP LEARNING) SPECIALIST
Computer Scientists and Software Engineers
 
Our mission is to ?detect cancer early, when it can be cured? and we will build
all of the computer systems and software necessary to realize that goal. We are
building the capability to accept very large numbers of blood samples and
provide a sample specific clinical report of the utmost accuracy and
reliability. As our team grows our job postings and descriptions will become
more specific and detailed. While our team is small we are providing broader
descriptions and we will subsequently match successful candidates to positions
and projects.
 
Position Summary
Machine learning in general, and deep learning in particular, has provided a
diverse set of breakthroughs whereby machines are matching or exceeding domain
specific human expertise and performance. Largely without exception these
breakthroughs have been enabled by access to vast data sets in these specific
domains. Our ultra-deep next generation sequencing across a very broad panel of
genes and the entire genome will enable similarly impressive breakthroughs in
predicting cancer and the nature of that cancer in currently asymptomatic
patients. If you have strong skills and experience in developing learning
systems our scientists and medical professionals will work with you to develop
the learning algorithms that will help save lives.
 
Quality and operational excellence are our joint responsibility and to that end
each and every one of us takes ownership of the quality our products from
design, through implementation, testing and production; we review code before
check-in, have thorough unit and integration tests, continuous integration and
reproducible production deployments that we take jointly operate.
 

Apply for this Position
Apply with Indeed

Go back to the job list

