  NCIRE - The Veterans Health Research Institute
         Browse Open Jobs Search Open Jobs Edit Your Profile View Submitted
                                    Applications


  Job Details 
  
  Requisition Number    16-0106
  Post Date             12/14/2016
  Title                 Statistician, Sr.
  Employment Type       Full Time
  Campus                SF VA Medical Center
  City                  San Francisco
  Description           Position Definition: The Senior Statistician will work
                        with a group of collegial, innovative, productive
                        epidemiology and health outcomes researchers who are
                        focused on improving health for older persons. Members of
                        the research group have joint appointments between UCSF
                        and the San Francisco VA Medical Center.

                        The incumbent?s duties will include, but will not be
                        limited to, determining the optimal statistical
                        approaches for testing research hypotheses and in
                        programming; perform and interpret statistical analyses
                        and assist with the presentation of findings; prepare the
                        statistical sections of manuscripts and preliminary data
                        sections for extramural grants; provide statistical
                        programming and analysis consultation for geriatrics
                        fellows; design databases and data input screens; perform
                        data management; develop study protocols and write study
                        documentation procedures (including analysis plans,
                        protocols and standard operating procedures); design,
                        develop, and document quality control systems for data
                        validation; provide technical support directly and
                        indirectly by acting as the liaison between geriatrics
                        and UCSF and SFVAMC technical support; and perform other
                        duties as assigned. The ideal candidate will execute,
                        manage, and coordinate research protocols, data
                        collection and operations of several concurrent clinical
                        research studies under the guidelines of research
                        protocols, UCSF/SFVAMC and regulating agency policies.


                        Essential Functions:
                        ? Independently determine optimal statistical approaches
                        to perform analyses and apply statistical approaches to
                        large, complex analytic datasets for geriatrics faculty.
                        ? Respond rapidly to statistical requests from manuscript
                        reviewers in an independent manner.
                        ? Write new computer programs as necessary to implement
                        statistical approaches used.
                        ? Independently write statistical methods sections of
                        manuscripts and data analysis sections for extramural
                        grants. Prepare tables and graphs for manuscripts and
                        grant. Assist in writing results sections of manuscripts
                        and preliminary findings sections of grants.
                        ? Provide statistical consultation to geriatrics research
                        fellows.
                        ? Research and understand details of complex statistical
                        modeling. Adapt mathematical and statistical models for
                        novel analyses of complex medical data.
                        ? Play a leadership role in guiding the analytic
                        functions of the research projects in the Division.
                        Advise principal investigators on appropriate
                        experimental designs and statistical tests in order that
                        valid conclusions can be obtained.
                        ? Make independent decisions both broad and detailed
                        about data management. Design databases and data input
                        screens and perform data management on large, complex
                        datasets. Acquire substantive understanding of data
                        variables (e.g. which ICD-9 codes are typically recorded
                        for patients with specific diagnoses; what are the
                        formulas giving the inter-relationships of various
                        measures of blood pressure).
                        ? Independently develop study protocols and documentation
                        procedures, and design, develop, and document quality
                        control systems for data validation
                        ? Provide technical support directly and indirectly by
                        acting as the liaison between the Geriatrics Division and
                        SFVAMC and UC technical support.
  Requirements          ? Masters degree in Statistics or a related field and
                        four years of professional statistical experience; or an
                        equivalent combination of education and experience; and
                        knowledge and abilities
                        ? Training in a variety of advanced statistical modeling
                        techniques including linear, logistic, and Poisson
                        regression models, mixed effect modeling, Cox
                        proportional hazards models, and longitudinal analytic
                        approaches
                        ? Experience with statistical consulting
                        ? Excellent skills in designing, maintaining, updating,
                        and manipulating large databases
                        ? Knowledge and experience with advanced statistical
                        programming and data management using STATA, SAS, Excel,
                        or other programs
                        ? Ability to provide custom designed reports and
                        graphical presentation of data using STATA, SAS,
                        ? Enthusiasm for learning and problem solving
                        ? Ability to work effectively both independently and as
                        part of a team.
                        ? Strong interpersonal, organizational, teaching, and
                        communication skills
    * Equal Opportunity Employer/Protected Veterans/Individuals with
      Disabilities.
    * Please view Equal Employment Opportunity Posters provided by OFCCP here.
    * The contractor will not discharge or in any other manner discriminate
      against employees or applicants because they have inquired about,
      discussed, or disclosed their own pay or the pay of another employee or
      applicant. However, employees who have access to the compensation
      information of other employees or applicants as a part of their essential
      job functions cannot disclose the pay of other employees or applicants to
      individuals who do not otherwise have access to compensation information,
      unless the disclosure is (a) in response to a formal complaint or charge,
      (b) in furtherance of an investigation, proceeding, hearing, or action,
      including an investigation conducted by the employer, or (c) consistent
      with the contractor's legal duty to furnish information.

                        Apply Online
                        Send This Job to a Friend
                              About NCIRE  |  Support Our Mission  |  Careers at NCIRE  |  Resources for
                            Veterans  |  How NCIRE Helps Veterans  |  How You Can Help  |  Contact Us  | 
                                                                Sitemap
                                    ? NCIRE. For more information please call us at 1.415.750.6954
                                     NCIRE is an independent 501(c)(3) not-for-profit corporation.
