
Location: Germantown, MD, US, 20874

Date: Jan 3, 2017

Requisition Number: 96426

A mutually rewarding experience.

Work. Realize your ambitions. And realize there’s more to being in business
than just making a profit. That’s the Mars philosophy. And the opportunity we
offer every one of our Associates. An opportunity to take what you do and make
it mean more for you, for those around you and for the planet.  What you get
here is challenging, interesting work. You get the tools you need to do a great
job and you get to have the best possible people on your side to help you do
it. And at the same time as getting to find ways to do business better today
than we did it yesterday and driving a great career, you also get to build a
more enlightened business and drive sustainability.

Because it’s never just about a single person, a single project or a single
brand. It’s about how you can grab everything that’s within your reach here and
use it to pursue mutual, long-term gain. It’s about having ideas. And ideals.
Being prepared to risk failure because the promise of success means we’ll all
be a little better off. It’s that mix of integrity and ambition that makes Mars
such a special place to work. And why working here is always about more than
just a job.

Mars has net sales of more than $33 billion, operates six business segments
including Petcare, Chocolate, Wrigley, Food, Drinks, Symbioscience, and more
than 75,000 Associates worldwide that are putting its Principles into action to
make a difference for people and the planet through its performance.

Mars brands include: Petcare – PEDIGREE®, ROYAL CANIN®, WHISKAS®, BANFIELD® Pet
Hospital, CESAR®, SHEBA®, DREAMIES® and NUTRO®; Chocolate – M&M’S®, SNICKERS®,
DOVE®, GALAXY®, MARS®, MILKY WAY® and TWIX®; Wrigley – DOUBLEMINT®, EXTRA®,
ORBIT® and 5™ chewing gums, SKITTLES® and STARBURST® candies, and ALTOIDS® AND
LIFESAVERS® mints. Food – UNCLE BEN’S®, DOLMIO®, EBLY®, MASTERFOODS®, SEEDS OF
CHANGE® and ROYCO®; Drinks – ALTERRA COFFEE ROASTERS™, THE BRIGHT TEA COMPANY™,
KLIX® and FLAVIA®; Symbioscience – COCOAVIA® and WISDOM PANEL®.

JOB SUMMARY

 

This laboratory-based position will focus on the routine analysis of raw
materials, in-process materials, and finished goods, including conventional
foods, dietary supplements, and medical foods. This role will also include, as
needed, participate in test method validation, and implementation of analytical
activities that meet near and long term regional and global business
objectives. This role will work closely with Quality and Safety Team to ensure
analytical compliance with required testing, and in support of product failure
investigations, and will work with the Food Applications Team in support of the
evaluation of new ingredients and product offerings by partnering with
Analytical Research Scientist(s). This position will involve support of junior
scientific staff.  Though focus will be on the support of priorities of Mars
Botanical, this role will interface with other Mars inc. business units,
applying Mars 5 principles, and appropriate scientific standards.

 

Principal Accountabilities

 

  • Conducts day-to-day analysis, primarily using LC (HPLC, UPLC, FT-IR, NIR,
    KF, GC, LC-MS and other analytical lab instruments), of a broad range of
    materials, including raw materials, in-process materials, and finished
    goods.
  • Acts as liaison between functional groups, as well as segments for a wide
    variety of analytical aspects, including the meaning of analytical data
    from various sources, the quality aspects of analytical projects, and
    timelines for analytical projects.
  • Proactively and cooperatively communicates with line manager to keep him/
    her informed of results, of obvious and subtle problems, and of likely
    potential problems, alternatives, and their consequences.
  • Is capable of working independently and cooperatively to develop and
    validate a wide variety of analytical test methods, while routinely keeping
    manager informed of progress and issues.
  • Has the ability to approach and work through simple and complex technical
    issues related to analysis. Proactively solves simple and complex problems
    through job knowledge; use of technical resources including technical
    literature and experts and well formulated, logical experimentation.
  • Provides technical support and guidance for junior chemist/analyst.
  • Where needed, provides training of analytical technicians and where needed,
    other analytical staff.

  • As needed, makes recommendations to line manager regarding areas where
    analytical improvements should be considered or are required to improve
    analytical quality, effectiveness, or efficiency.
  • Follows, understands, and complies with all SOPs and policies on GMPs and
    safety.
  • Maintains a clean, safe, and organized lab area.
  • Participates in drafting new SOPs and policies.
  • Accurately records own data and results in a timely manner and in
    compliance with appropriate quality standards. As needed, reviews and
    provides comment on data, protocols, and reports in a timely manner.
  • May co-author memos and scientific reports in support of Regulatory
    Submissions, and support quality control and manufacturing documents.

 

Key Functional Skills/Knowledge

 

  • Proficient in analyzing samples from various sources using analytical
    instrumentation, such as HPLC and GC (among others).
  • Some expertise in developing and validating analytical methods, alone or
    with supervision.
  • Effective ability to troubleshoot analytical issues as they arise.
  • Working knowledge of regulatory requirements for U.S. pertaining to foods,
    dietary supplements, and medical foods.
  • Maintains a strong working knowledge of analytical techniques and their
    application to complex analytical and food chemistry problems.
  • Can manage multiple projects concurrently and set priorities in conjunction
    with line manager in a fast-changing, results-oriented R&D environment.
  • Excellent scientific skills in experiment design, data collection, and
    problem solving.
  • Is a team player, and establishes and maintains effective working
    relationships with other areas of the company, such as Food Applications,
    QC, Regulatory Affairs, Manufacturing, etc.
  • Experience with the key techniques associated with the analysis of natural
    products is preferred, but not required.
  • Ability to present ideas effectively and communicate well with all levels
    of management within a team environment on a variety of programs and
    projects.
  • Experience with and understanding of CDS ChemStation (proficient in
    ChemStation, Empower, and other HPLC, and MS data acquisition software and
    proficient in troubleshooting HPLC, GC, MS hardware issues).
  • Proficiency in standard Microsoft programs, including Word, Excel, and
    PowerPoint is required.

 

Mission Critical Competencies

 

Dealing with ambiguity

Managing and measuring work

Planning

Problem solving

Peer relationships

Standing alone

Integrity and Trust

Key Experiences

  • Demonstrated effective, broad technical skills, such as in: HPLC, UPLC, GC,
    LC-MS, KF, CE, CZE, TLC, SDS-PAGE, ELISA.
      □ At least 7 years of industry experience in HPLC, GC,LC-MS, TLC, CE
        methods.
  • Demonstrated method development/validation, and project management
    experience required.
  • Demonstrated experience in being able to work independently to complete
    projects.
  • Demonstrated high level of prioritization and organization skills, with
    self-motivation and strong attention to detail.
  • Demonstrated ability to effectively work in a cooperative manner within
    teams.
  • Demonstrated effective interpersonal and communication skills.
  • Demonstrated ability to work in a fast-paced, high-demand environment.
      □ At least 5 years performing analytical work in cGMP/QA environment.

 

Desired Education

  • M.S. in Analytical Chemistry is preferred

 

Decision Making Authority and Impact

Decides

  • Ensures analytical work is conducted at high quality standards.
  • When involved in a research project, ensures that the research conducted is
    of peer review caliber (publication quality) and that the reports written
    enable the business to make informed decisions on the topic.

 

Recommends

  • Makes recommendations regarding opportunities for methodological
    improvements and new methodologies that should be considered for
    utilization in-house.
  • Where needed, identifies and recommends action on analytically-focused
    methods related to the analysis of key raw materials, ingredients, and
    finished products.
  • Provides technical assistance in troubleshooting of LC and GC, LC-MS.



 
