[93f573a6-0]

Data Scientist

Palo Alto, CA
Data Science
Full-time
Apply for this job

NAUTO is an autonomous car startup on a mission to make better drivers out of
us all and cities safer and more efficient. We're looking for engineering and
business professionals  who love to design, build and scale real-time
distributed systems to join our growing team in Palo Alto.
 
Merging artificial intelligence with computer vision, NAUTO’s systems detect
and react to what’s happening on the road ahead of a driver and within the
vehicle.  NAUTO algorithms sense when there is an issue on the road ahead, or a
distraction within the vehicle, and helps the driver respond. NAUTO also
automatically understands when a collision is about to happen, and records the
scene inside and outside of the car. Then images and data about the incident
are stored in the cloud, and can be shared via NAUTO’s app and fleet management
tools.
 
NAUTO is selling to automobile OEMs, insurance providers and commercial fleets.
Its systems are running on several classes of high-volume commercial vehicles.
Investors in our recent A-round included Andy Rubin’s Playground Global, Draper
Nexus and strategics such as BMW, Toyota, and Germany’s largest insurer,
Allianz.
 
Long-term NAUTO will continue to partner with auto manufacturers to evolve its
systems from an on-board safety AI into a platform that becomes the brain
controlling autonomous vehicles.

Responsibilities:

      □     Design and maintain well-structured relational database schemas.
      □     Create automated ETL pipelines and APIs for a variety of raw data
        sources.
      □     Research and develop new data storage architectures for growing
        data volumes.
      □     Transfer prototype algorithms to a production-ready system. 
      □     Maintain excellent documentation for understanding and accessing
        data storage.

The ideal candidate takes pride in her/his work, analytical ability, ability to
explain technical issues to non-technical people, and attention to detail.  She
/he appreciates an environment where superior work is encouraged, noticed and
rewarded and where individuals carry tremendous responsibility.

Apply for this job

Nauto Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
