Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist

Data Scientist

ID 
    2016-3787

Job Locations 
    US-NY-New York

Category 
    Data Science

More information about this job:

What We're Looking For:

Under the guidance of the Director of Data Science, the Data Scientist will
lead advanced analytical research and development. This is a highly
quantitative role that requires analytical aptitude, strong programming skills,
intellectual curiosity and the ability to communicate results effectively.

Responsibilities Include, But Are Not Limited To:

  • Machine learning and model building for projects involving various teams
    across the company, including sales, marketing, human resources, finance,
    and operations
  • Predictive modeling and segmentation to support prospect scoring and
    consumer targeting
  • Data exploration to identify drivers & trends within our business
  • Ad hoc analysis and reporting as needed

Things That Should Be in Your Background:

  • Degree in statistics, mathematics, computer science, economics, or other
    quantitative field required; Graduate degree preferred
  • 2-4 years of experience working with advanced analytic techniques in
    classification, regression, optimization and text analytics
  • Experience implementing machine learning algorithms (Random Forest, SVM,
    etc.) in production settings
  • Proficiency in either R or Python
  • Familiarity with data extraction across different database architectures
  • The ability and desire to identify and deploy novel solutions to business
    problems

Other Attributes That Will Help You in This Role:

  • Strong interpersonal & communication skills
  • Ability to maintain a fun, casual, professional and productive team
    atmosphere
  • Excellent communication skills with the ability to communicate in a
    courteous, tactful, and concise manner
  • Ability to work with a diverse team in a fast-paced environment
  • Enthusiasm and the ability to thrive in an atmosphere of constant change

 

About 2U
2U partners with leading colleges and universities to deliver the world’s best
online degree programs. Our Platform, a fusion services and technology, enables
schools to attract, enroll, educate, support and graduate students around the
world. Our company culture is united by our No Back Row® philosophy; the idea
that when we each lean in and do our part, we are better individually and
collectively.

2U Diversity and Inclusion Statement
At 2U, we are committed to creating and sustaining a culture that embodies
diverse walks of life, ideas, genders, ages, races, cultures, sexual
orientations, abilities and other unique qualities of our employees. We strive
to offer a workplace where every employee feels empowered by the ways in which
we are different, as well as the ways in which we are the same.

Why It’s Great to Work at 2U
2U offers a high-energy work environment that’s both challenging and fun. We
work hard, but our offices are casual and social places. We wear jeans to work
and fuel brainstorming sessions with snacks and seltzer.

Benefits
2U offers a comprehensive benefits package:

  • Medical, dental and vision coverage
  • Life insurance, disability and 401(k)
  • Unlimited snacks and drinks
  • Generous paid leave policies
  • Tuition reimbursement program
  • Spontaneous dance parties
  • No Asshole policy 

Note: The above statements are intended to describe the general nature and
level of work performed by individuals assigned to this position, and are not
intended to be construed as an exhaustive list of all responsibilities, duties
and skills required. All employees may be required to perform duties outside of
their normal responsibilities from time to time, as needed.

2U is an equal opportunity employer that does not discriminate against
applicants or employees and ensures equal employment opportunity for all
persons regardless of their race, creed, color, religion, sex, sexual
orientation, pregnancy, national origin, age, marital status, disability,
citizenship, military or veterans’ status, or any other classifications
protected by applicable federal, state or local laws. 2U’s equal opportunity
policy applies to all terms and conditions of employment, including but not
limited to recruiting, hiring, training, promotion, job benefits, pay and
dismissal.

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email a FriendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Go to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

