[84963f7c-5]

Data Scientist

San Jose, CA
Data Science
Full-time
Apply for this job

The Company:
 Faraday Future is a California mobility company bringing a tech approach to
clean transportation. At FF, we believe that by placing equal emphasis on
automotive and technology disciplines, our team of experts is uniquely
positioned to take a user-centric, technology-first approach to vehicle design
with the ultimate aim of connecting the automotive experience with the rest of
your life.

Your Role:
?       TLDR: Use Stats, Machine Learning, Math and CS to help design the car
and its sensors, gain insight into business decisions regarding sales &
marketing, help create a seamless service experience and  model reliability.
?       Work in the IoV space to help develop the next generation of algorithms
and methodologies that will power the connected vehicle.
?       Understand the consumer space to develop next generation customer sales
and service models.
?       Utilize machine learning algorithms to help customize the car around
around the user.
 
Basic Requirements:
?       Masters in Statistics, Biostatistics, Computer Science, Applied
Mathematics or related field
?       Extensive experience with R and Python
?       Very familiar with Unix and high performance computing
?       Deep understanding of statistical modeling, regression, hypothesis
testing, estimation, monte carlo simulation, MCMC, Bootstrapping, PCA.
?       Expertise in machine learning: Clustering, Random Forests, Neural Nets,
SVM, Nearest Neighbors.
?       Experience with Spark, Hadoop & Other big data tools.
 
Preferred Requirements:
?       PhD in Statistics, Biostatistics, Computer Science, Applied Mathematics
or related field.
?       Experience with Pig or Hive.
?       Experience with NLP and Sentiment Analysis.
?       Prior work history in the automotive industry.
?       EE or Hardware experience with sensors a plus.

PERKS + BENEFITS
?         Free, in house, catered lunch every day
?         Snacks and coffee available 24?7
?         Health, dental, and vision benefits
?         401(k)
?         Paid vacation time every year, plus a full week of paid time off
between Christmas and New Year?s

Apply for this job

Faraday Future Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
