[logo_new]

  • Home
  • Employment Listings

    Employment Listings
  • Search Job Listings
  • Update Your Profile
  • Create a Job Agent
  • Update Job Agent
  • Recruiting Agency Login

 

Your user session will timeout in 5 minutes. Please click OK to continue with
your application.

Data and Policy Analyst - Statistical Programmer

Tracking Code
    76-764
Job Description
   
     

    Acumen, LLC / The SPHERE Institute conduct public policy research and
    statistical analysis on health programs at the national, state, and local
    levels. We leverage our unparalleled data access to improve information
    available to policymakers, while our meritocratic environment offers rapid
    advancement and leadership opportunities. Our policy firms offer an
    exciting opportunity to work in health care topics.

     

    At Acumen, LLC / The SPHERE Institute, Data and Policy Analysts provide
    analytical support for research and consulting projects for government and
    private clients, primarily in the area of health policy. This position is
    responsible for managing and analyzing data, researching and interpreting
    policy, and communicating findings to multiple audiences.

     

    Data and Policy Analysts perform a wide array of functions as part of the
    research process. Those applicants interested in focusing on statistical
    programming help create and report descriptive statistic, conduct
    econometric and statistical analyses of data using statistical software
    such as SAS and STATA, interpret study specifications, research findings,
    and quantitative analyses for relevant audiences, develop research files
    from large confidential datasets, and perform other duties as assigned.

Required Skills
   
     

    As we review your materials, we are looking for candidates who
    best exemplify the following qualifications:

     

    Qualifications Required:

     

      □ Bachelor’s degree in a quantitative, public policy, or related field 
        or equivalent relevant experience
      □ Good quantitative analytical skills
      □ Good oral and written communication skills
      □ Good organizational skills and strong attention to detail
      □ Familiar with one or more of the following technical competencies:
        statistics, programming, policy writing, research methods
        documentation, or project management
      □ Able to demonstrate initiative, critical thinking, and problem-solving
      □ Able to work in a team-oriented environment
      □ Able to prioritize tasks and meet deadlines in a fast-paced environment
      □ Demonstrated aptitude and enthusiasm for learning

     

    Qualifications Desired:

     

      □ Demonstrated interest in health and social policy
      □ Master's degree in a quantitative, public policy, or related field or 
        equivalent relevant experience

     

    Any application without a cover letter will not be considered. Transcripts
    and coding samples are not required, however highly preferred and may be
    requested. We are excited to review your application and look forward to
    seeing how you may best contribute to our work.

Job Location
    Burlingame, California, United States
Position Type
    Full-Time/Regular

Apply

[New Resume/CV]

[Existing Resume/CV]

Share

Return To Job Listings 

Acumen, LLC & The SPHERE Institute • 500 Airport Blvd, Suite 365 • Burlingame,
                 CA 94010 • 650.558.8882 • info@acumen-llc.com
 Copyright © 2017 Acumen, LLC & The SPHERE Institute | All Rights Reserved |
                                Privacy Policy                                 
