[galvanize2]

gU Assistant Faculty, Data Scientist

San Francisco
Instructional Team
Full-time
Apply for this job

Join the faculty at GalvanizeU to help the shape the future of data science
education. GalvanizeU is a tight-knit team of data scientists, educators, and
community builders that are creating  practical, industry-based education.

GalvanizeU is a 12 month fully accredited Masters of Science in Data Science
program powered by the University of New Haven. Read more about the program at 
www.galvanizeu.com 

We are growing our data science instructional staff at Galvanize. Our
Instructors train technical professionals with programming experience to solve
data science problems utilizing innovative educational techniques. We?re
looking for passionate educators and practical problem solvers with
demonstrated flexibility and curiosity.

Join us in building the world's hub for education in data science and data
engineering.

AS A FACULTY MEMBER OF GALVNANIZEU, YOU WILL:

      + Assist in delivering lectures on scientific Python, SQL, probability,
        statistics (Bayesian and frequentist), machine learning, Natural
        Language Processing, Information Retrieval, data engineering, and more.
      + Lead programming ?sprints? for graduate students classroom Work on real
        world data science projects with our industry partners allowing
        students to shadow you as you practice your craft.
      + Deftly and patiently field student questions and provide feedback
        during lectures and office hours.
      + Utilize student feedback and experimentation to continuously improve
        teaching and assessment methods.
      + Evaluate new tools, packages, and tutorials for use in the curriculum.

EXPECTED EXPERIENCE:

      + Multiple years of experience in industry as a data scientist or
        software engineer.
      + Master's or PhD in a quantitative discipline such as engineering,
        statistics, or mathematics.
      + Strong understanding in the topics we teach: scientific Python,
        probability, statistics, SQL, machine learning, data engineering, data
        visualization, and data at scale.
      + Outstanding communication skills.
      + Multiple years of experience teaching a quantitative subject
        (preferred.)

Galvanize provides equal employment opportunities (EEO) to all employees and
applicants for employment. Qualified applicants will receive consideration for
employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation,
gender perception or identity, national origin, age, marital status, protected
veteran status, or disability status.

Apply for this job

Galvanize Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
