  * USAA Home
      + Career Center
          o About USAA
          o Career Areas
          o Locations
          o Military
          o University
          o Life @ USAA

Risk-Compliance-Audit Jobs at USAA

graphic of WreathImage

  * Careers
  * /
  * Search Jobs
  * 
  * Risk-Compliance-Audit Jobs
  * 
  * Risk Management Jobs
  * 
  * Quantitative Risk Analyst

Quantitative Risk Analyst Job

Apply Now

Job Number: R0003127

Location: San Antonio, TX

Date Posted: 1-6-2017

Full Job Title: Quant Risk Analyst I

 

Purpose of Job

We are currently seeking talented Quantitative Risk Analyst for our San
Antonio, TX facility.

Conducts and develops quantitative and analytic models, assessments and/or
applications in support of risk management efforts that assess the market and
identify risks and gaps in existing or proposed processes. Applies diverse
methodologies and deep experience in a variety of disciplines to identify and
solve complex and/or undefined risk problems. Works with leadership to
remediate gaps and improvements identified between existing practices and
regulatory requirements.

Job Requirements

Specifically, this QRA will work in the Enterprise Operational Risk team and
focus on stress testing/Enterprise DFAST and scenario analysis activities.

  * Utilizes advanced analytics to assess future risk, opportunities, and
    effectiveness. Translates results into meaningful solutions to enhance
    decision making. May present findings to various levels of leadership.
  * Utilizes industry best practices to quantify risk and aggregate exposures.
    Develops complex systems and programs that measure aggregate risk
    exposures.
  * May engage in model validation and/or produce model validation reports.
  * Applies innovative and scientific/quantitative analytical approaches to
    draw conclusions and make recommendations to answer business objectives and
    drive change using developed knowledge. May translate recommendations into
    communication materials to effectively present to colleagues for peer
    review and management.
  * Produces advanced analytical material for discussions with cross-functional
    teams to understand complex business objectives and influence solution
    strategies.
  * Communicates analytical results, findings and solutions to governance
    committees and business process owners and influences business analysis.
    May create statistical reporting and financial analysis to forecast results
    for required stress test scenarios. Analyzes and challenges stress testing
    results and partners with relevant functions to validate those results.


Minimum Requirements

  * Bachelor's degree in Economics, Statistics, Mathematics, Actuarial Sciences
    or other quantitative discipline or 4 years related quantitative analysis
    experience in a discipline relevant to risk management to include
    statistical analysis, modeling, mathematics or other quantitative
    discipline - OR advanced degree/designation in Economics, Statistics,
    Mathematics, Actuarial Sciences, or other quantitative discipline and 2+
    years work experience in a quantitative discipline relevant to risk
    management - OR PhD in Economics, Statistics, Mathematics, or other
    quantitative discipline.
  * Successful completion of an analyst assessment may be required.

*Qualifications may warrant placement in a different job level.*

When you apply for this position, you will be required to answer some initial
questions. This will take approximately 5 minutes. Once you begin the questions
you will not be able to finish them at a later time and you will not be able to
change your responses.

Preferred

  * Master's or PhD in a quantitative discipline.
  * Experience in one or more of the following areas: machine learning,
    recommendation systems, pattern recognition, large-scale data mining or
    artificial intelligence.
  * Previous experience with stress testing/DFAST, understanding of the capital
    planning process, familiarity with operational loss data.

The above description reflects the details considered necessary to describe the
principal functions of the job and should not be construed as a detailed
description of all the work requirements that may be performed in the job.

At USAA our employees enjoy one of the best benefits packages in the business,
including a flexible business casual or casual dress environment, comprehensive
medical, dental and vision plans, along with wellness and wealth building
programs. Additionally, our career path planning and continuing education will
assist you with your professional goals.

USAA also offers a variety of on-site services and conveniences to help you
manage your work and personal life, including seven cafeterias, two company
stores and three fitness centers.

Relocation assistance is available for this position.

Qualified applicants must successfully complete a pre-employment background and
drug screen.

For Internal Candidates:

Must complete 12 months in current position (from date of hire or date of
placement), or must have manager?s approval prior to posting.

Last day to apply to the opening is 1/12/17 by 11:59 pm CST time.

Apply Now
 
Join Our Talent Network
Back to top
USAA is proud to have been named a "Top Workplace" by The Denver Post and the
Tampa Bay Times.
[IconClipbo]
USAA Facebook (Opens New Window) USAA Twitter (Opens New Window) USAA YouTube
(Opens New Window) More About USAA Social Media Page
Corporate Info & Media News Center Privacy Careers Accessibility Contact Us
Site Map FAQs Site Terms

Copyright ?2016 USAA.

USAA is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer and gives
consideration for employment to qualified applicants without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, genetic information,
sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, veteran status or
any other legally protected characteristic. If you'd like more information
about your EEO rights as an applicant under the law, please click here. For
USAA?s Affirmative Action and EEO statement, please click here.

USAA provides equal opportunity to qualified individuals with disabilities and
disabled veterans. USAA will provide reasonable accommodation when requested to
enable completion of the online employment inquiry form or, if desired, an
alternative method of inquiry. If you need a reasonable accommodation, please
email HumanResources@usaa.com for assistance.

USAA means United Services Automobile Association and its insurance, banking,
investment and other companies. Banks Member FDIC. Investments provided by USAA
Investment Management Company and USAA Financial Advisors Inc., both registered
broker dealers.

DID 205814 - 0514

