Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist / Quantitative Developer

Data Scientist / Quantitative Developer

Job ID 
    2016-1263

City 
    New York

State 
    New York

More information about this job:

Overview:

The successful candidate will be responsible for making a significant
contribution to the PWP Global Macro team?s investment effort by maintaining
and further enhancing the data environment of the team to support the team?s
econometric models, datasets and reporting systems and to enable ongoing
testing and enhancement of the investment process.  The key responsibilities
will be as follows:

  * Maintain, expand and enhance the team?s databases to support ongoing
    research and production requirements.
  * Collaborate with the investment team and IT colleagues to maintain and
    enhance the team?s security framework related to data and code.
  * Manage large datasets, ensure consistency and accuracy of data, and create
    visualizations to help with the understanding of the data.
  * Develop quantitative, analytical systems/reports to be used by the
    portfolio manager for analysis and decision support, as well as create
    visualizations to communicate reports and results in the form of
    dashboards.
  * Prepare and maintain various risk, exposures, or other reports needed for
    the activities of the Fund.
  * Assist in research activities, on an as-needed basis, by obtaining and
    organizing data, and performing preliminary analysis and visualization
    under the guidance of the investment professionals.
  * Assist in trading-related activities and interact with the Middle Office,
    Trading and Operations teams for matters related to the Fund.

 

Desired Skills and Background:

  * Undergraduate or Master's degree (or equivalent) in a quantitative field
    including computer science, software engineering, mathematics, statistics,
    financial economics, or equivalent.
  * Preferably, two to three years of relevant professional experience,
    including dealing with large databases, as well as programming skills that
    demonstrate ability to employ those skills to solve modeling challenges and
    meet data and visualization requirements in a limited time.
  * Strong programming skills in Matlab and VBA. Experience with SAS would be a
    plus.
  * Ability to master complex tasks with minimal supervision.
  * Ability to work well both independently and in collaboration with others.
  * Strong work ethic, good communication skills, enthusiasm for working with
    data.

About Perella Weinberg Partners

Perella Weinberg Partners (PWP) is a leading independent, client-focused
financial services firm providing advisory and asset management services to a
broad, global client base, including corporations, institutions, and
governments. The Advisory business advises clients on mergers, acquisitions,
defense advisory, financial restructuring, private capital raising, and pension
matters. The Asset Management business includes a suite of hedge fund
strategies, private investment funds, and outsourced CIO solutions. Together
with its affiliates, the Asset Management business has capital commitments and
managed assets of approximately $8.9 billion. With approximately 450 employees,
Perella Weinberg Partners maintains offices in New York, London, Abu Dhabi,
Denver, Dubai, and San Francisco. For more information on Perella Weinberg
Partners, please visit http://www.pwpartners.com.

 

Additional Information

Additional information about Perella Weinberg Partners can be found at 
www.pwpartners.com.  If you have any questions about our Firm or this
opportunity, please contact: Human Resources (humanresources@pwpartners.com)

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
#Go back to the welcome page
