[spacer]

  • What's Available Now
  • Applicant Notice

Your user session will timeout in 5 minutes. Please click OK to continue with
your application.

12/21/2016

Data Scientist

Tracking Code
    50041774
Job Description
   
    The New York Power Authority is making investments in smart grid as a part
    of NYPA’s Strategic Vision 2014-2020 that is aimed at providing both NYPA
    and New York State with the most advanced grid in the industry and to
    ensure that the most modern industry solutions are leveraged to deliver
    capability in key areas. Improved IT data management will increase benefits
    to customers by providing the State with market leading management of
    future technologies, management of enterprise wide systems providing
    near-real-time access to information and predictive analysis, improved
    systems management, and increased system efficiency.

    We are looking for someone who is very curious, who enjoy diving deep into
    the material to find an answer to a yet unknown question. Someone who have
    a natural desire to go beneath the surface of a problem. We are looking for
    thinkers who can ask the right (business) questions. Someone who is
    confident and self-secure as they more often than not will have to deal
    with situations where there is a lot unknown. Someone who is patient as
    finding the unknown in massive data sets will take a lot of time and
    developing the algorithm to uncover new insights will often go by
    trial-and-error.

    The right understanding to integrate multiple systems and data sets. They
    need to be able to link and mash up distinctive data sets to discover new
    insights. This often requires connecting different types of data sets in
    different forms as well as being able to work with potentially incomplete
    data sources and cleaning data sets to be able to use them.

    A statistical, mathematical, predictive modelling as well as business
    strategy skills to build the algorithms necessary to ask the right
    questions and find the right answers. A need to be able to communicate
    findings, orally and visually. Experience is preferably in different
    programming languages such as Python, R, Java, Ruby, Clojure, Matlab, Pig
    or SQL. Have an understanding of Hadoop, Hive and/or MapReduce. In addition
    the need to be familiar with disciplines such as:

      □ Natural Language Processing: the interactions between computers and
        humans;
      □ Machine learning: using computers to improve as well as develop
        algorithms;
      □ Conceptual modelling: to be able to share and articulate modelling;
      □ Statistical analysis: to understand and work around possible
        limitations in models;
      □ Predictive modelling: most of the big data problems are towards being
        able to predict future outcomes;
      □ Hypothesis testing: being able to develop hypothesis and test them with
        careful experiments.
      □ Expert in analyzing large, complex, multi-dimensional datasets with a
        variety of tools.
      □ Accomplished in the use of statistical analysis environments such as R,
        MATLAB. Experience with BI tools such as Tableau and Microstrategy.
Required Skills
      □ Passionate about asking and answering questions in large datasets, and
        you are able to communicate that passion to product managers and
        engineers.
      □ Strong written and verbal communication skills;
      □ Having the ability to query databases and perform statistical analysis;
      □ Being able to develop or program databases;
      □ Being able to advice senior management in clear language about the
        implications of their work for the organization;
      □ Having an, at least basic, understanding of how a business and strategy
        works;
      □ Being able to create examples, prototypes, demonstrations to help
        management better understand the work;
      □ Having a good understanding of design and architecture principles;
      □ Being able to work autonomously.
      □ Define enterprise information standards, guidelines and principles
      □ Knowledge of electric utility industry standards, equipment and smart
        grid data models a plus
      □ Responsive to customer requests and needs
      □ Understanding of all data oriented ITIL processes
      □ Ability to prioritize and plan work with respect to project schedules,
        and deliver results in a timely manner
      □ Excellent planning, organization and presentation skills in order to
        communicate to all audience levels
      □ Excellent analytic and problem solving skills
      □ A keen desire to solve business problems, and live to find patterns and
        insights within structured and unstructured data.
      □ Analytics strategies and solutions that challenge and expand the
        thinking of everyone around you.
      □ Comfortable with relational databases as you are with Hadoop-based data
        mining frameworks.
Required Experience
      □ BS or Master’s Degree in operations research, applied statistics, data
        mining, machine learning, physics or a related quantitative discipline.
      □ A deep understanding of statistical and predictive modeling concepts,
        machine-learning approaches, clustering and classification techniques,
        and recommendation and optimization algorithms.
      □ 3 years of experience delivering world-class data science outcomes, you
        solve complex analytical problems using quantitative approaches with
        your unique blend of analytical, mathematical and technical skills.
      □ Familiar with SQL, Python, Java and C/C++.
      □ Strong analytical, creative thinking and problem solving skills
      □ Ability to multi-task and provide high quality solution under pressure
Job Location
    White Plains, New York, United States
Position Type
    Full-Time/Regular

Apply

[New Resume/CV]

[Existing Resume/CV]

Share

Return To Job Listings 

                  Copyright © 2017 NYPA. All rights reserved.
                                 Terms of Use                                  
