  NCIRE - The Veterans Health Research Institute
         Browse Open Jobs Search Open Jobs Edit Your Profile View Submitted
                                    Applications


  Job Details 
  
  Requisition Number    16-0107
  Post Date             12/14/2016
  Title                 Statistician
  Employment Type       Full Time
  Campus                SF VA Medical Center
  City                  San Francisco
  Description           Position Definition: The Statistician will work with a
                        group of collegial, innovative, productive epidemiology
                        and health outcomes researchers who are focused on
                        improving health for older persons. Members of the
                        research group have joint appointments between UCSF and
                        the San Francisco VA Medical Center.

                        The incumbent will help research faculty with a variety
                        of research projects. The successful candidate will
                        independently consult with PIs; plan and implement study
                        projects and analyses; access, manage, merge, and
                        reconcile large databases; apply and develop mathematical
                        models; perform and interpret statistical analyses,
                        including linear, logistic, and Poisson regression
                        models, mixed effect modeling, and Cox proportional
                        hazards models, and assist with the presentation of
                        findings. The incumbent will work with both research
                        faculty and with research fellows.

                        Essential Functions:
                        ? Apply mathematical models to large datasets
                        ? Planning and implementation of statistical analyses for
                        grants and manuscripts
                        ? Prepare statistical sections of manuscripts and
                        preliminary sections for extramural grants
                        ? Plan and implement study projects
                        ? Design databases and perform data management
                        ? Manage, merge, and reconcile large, complex databases
                        and become proficient in understanding their contents and
                        documentation
                        ? Develop study protocols and documentation procedures,
                        and develop and document quality control systems for data
                        validation
                        ? Provide technical support directly and indirectly by
                        acting as the liaison between the research team and
                        technical support
                        ? Perform other duties as assigned
  Requirements          ? Masters degree in Statistics or a related field
                        ? Training in a variety of statistical modeling
                        techniques including linear, logistic, and Poisson
                        regression models, mixed effect modeling, and Cox
                        proportional hazards models
                        ? Experience in maintaining, updating, and manipulating
                        large databases
                        ? Knowledge and experience with advanced statistical
                        programming and data management using STATA and/or SAS
                        ? Ability to provide custom designed reports and
                        graphical presentation of data using STATA and/or SAS,
                        ? Strong interpersonal, organizational, teaching, and
                        communication skills
    * Equal Opportunity Employer/Protected Veterans/Individuals with
      Disabilities.
    * Please view Equal Employment Opportunity Posters provided by OFCCP here.
    * The contractor will not discharge or in any other manner discriminate
      against employees or applicants because they have inquired about,
      discussed, or disclosed their own pay or the pay of another employee or
      applicant. However, employees who have access to the compensation
      information of other employees or applicants as a part of their essential
      job functions cannot disclose the pay of other employees or applicants to
      individuals who do not otherwise have access to compensation information,
      unless the disclosure is (a) in response to a formal complaint or charge,
      (b) in furtherance of an investigation, proceeding, hearing, or action,
      including an investigation conducted by the employer, or (c) consistent
      with the contractor's legal duty to furnish information.

                        Apply Online
                        Send This Job to a Friend
                              About NCIRE  |  Support Our Mission  |  Careers at NCIRE  |  Resources for
                            Veterans  |  How NCIRE Helps Veterans  |  How You Can Help  |  Contact Us  | 
                                                                Sitemap
                                    ? NCIRE. For more information please call us at 1.415.750.6954
                                     NCIRE is an independent 501(c)(3) not-for-profit corporation.
