Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Bioinformatics Analyst I

Bioinformatics Analyst I

Job ID 
    2017-5697

Location 
    US-MA-Boston

Category 
    IT/Health IT/Informatics

Type 
    full time

Grade 
    22

Job Posted Date 
    1/6/2017

More information about this job

Overview

Located in Boston and the surrounding communities, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute
brings together world renowned clinicians, innovative researchers and dedicated
professionals, allies in the common mission of conquering cancer, HIV/AIDS and
related diseases. Combining extremely talented people with the best
technologies in a genuinely positive environment, we provide compassionate and
comprehensive care to patients of all ages; we conduct research that advances
treatment; we educate tomorrow's physician/researchers; we reach out to
underserved members of our community; and we work with amazing partners,
including other Harvard Medical School-affiliated hospitals.

This newly created role, the Assistant Computational Biologist role provides
assistance to faculty and research staff in the collection, management,
analysis and interpretation of biological data, with a focus on the analysis of
data from genomic, transcriptomic, proteomic, or microarray studies.

 

This role will be in the laboratories of Dr. Kimberly Stegmaier and Dr. Scott
Armstrong at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in the Department of Pediatric
Oncology. Their research focuses on multiple pediatric cancers including
leukemia and childhood solid tumors. Their goal is to integrate functional and
chemical genomic and epigenomic data to develop new therapeutic approaches for
cancers affecting children. Computational biologists will interact and
collaborate closely with other scientists and computational biologists across
the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and the Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT
with the goal of providing necessary computational support to many ongoing
projects. 

Responsibilities

Responsibilities Include:

  * Analyze sequencing data, for example from RNAseq and CHIPseq experiments
  * Deploy existing programs and algorithms to evaluate other experimental data
    generated in our labs (e.g., drug synergy experiments, chemical screens,
    CRISPR screens)
  * Provide support for basic computational tasks in the lab
  * Document methods for reproducible analysis
  * Report data and analytical methods in oral and written formats
  * Participate in all lab meetings and department meetings at DFCI and Broad
    Institute

Preferred, but not required:

  * Experience in computational biology applications
  * Experience working in a scientific or medical research setting

 

Qualifications

Qualifications:

  * Bachelors degree required, advanced degree preferred in bioinformatics,
    computer science and/or the life sciences
  * Familiarity with coding in R (or other similar languages)
  * Experience with big data
  * Experience with data summary visualization
  * Effective communication skills
  * Strong organizational techniques, including the ability to handle a variety
    of tasks in a fast paced environment


Dana-Farber Cancer Institute is an equal opportunity employer and affirms the
right of every qualified applicant to receive consideration for employment
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, gender identity or expression,
national origin, sexual orientation, genetic information, disability, age,
ancestry, military service, protected veteran status, or other groups as
protected by law.

Options

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
#Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

