Skip to Main Content
Universitywide | New Brunswick | Newark | Camden | RBHS

University Search


University Human Resources Home
Rutgers University
Employment Opportunities

  * Home
  * Search Jobs
  * Create Account
  * Log In
  * Help

  * Applicant Tutorial
  * Employment FAQs
  * Benefits Information
  * About Rutgers
  * Other Job Postings at RU

Sign Up for Weekly Email Alerts about New Job Postings at Rutgers

Research Scientist III

Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary
documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening.
 To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button.

If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the
Bookmark link.  If you would like to print a copy of this position for your
records, click on the Print Preview link.

Bookmark this Posting | Print Preview | Apply for this Job

Position Details

Position Information

Recruitment
 /Posting   Research Scientist III
   Title
    Job     Staff & Executive - Research (Laboratory/Non-Laboratory)
 Category
Department  CINJ-Cancer Registry-Research
            Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey Vision, Mission, and Core
            Values:

            Our vision is to be a statewide, national and world leader of
            scientific discovery, transdisciplinary engagement, translation,
            patient care and education that improves outcomes for cancer
            patients and populations. We will accomplish this by conducting
            innovative basic, clinical and population research and cutting-edge
            patient-centered care that expands our understanding of the
 Overview   etiology and biology of cancer; facilitates the rapid translation
            of laboratory-based discoveries into human studies; develops new
            approaches and interventions for cancer prevention that decrease
            cancer incidence and mortality; and develops new and better
            therapies to decrease suffering and mortality from cancer.

            Core Values:

            Curiosity and Discovery, Integrity, Collaboration, Respect and
            Caring, Perseverance.

            Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, is seeking a Research
            Scientist III for the Cancer Registry department at the Rutgers
            Cancer Institute of New Jersey. The Research Scientist III assists
            with the design and conduct of research studies on cancers,
            according to set protocols. Among the key duties of this position
            are the following:

            ? Assists in the analysis of cancer surveillance data using the New
  Posting   Jersey State Cancer Registry (NJSCR).
  Summary   ? Implements and carries out specialized research and/or analytical
            programs designed by senior scientific staff.
            ? Participates in the daily activities of a group of professional
            and technical personnel engaged in research and/or testing
            activities.
            ? Under the direction of senior scientific staff, investigates,
            reviews, modifies, develops, and tests new analytical procedures
            and methodologies.

 Position   Full Time
  Status
 Hours Per
   Week
Daily Work
   Shift
   FLSA     Exempt
   Grade    27S
 Position
  Salary
  Annual
  Minimum   64184.000
  Salary
Annual Mid
   Range    77971.500
  Salary
  Annual
  Maximum   91759.000
  Salary
 Standard   37.50
   Hours
   Union    HPAE, Local 5094
Description
  Payroll   PeopleSoft
Designation
            Information about the benefits provided to Rutgers employees can be
 Benefits   found at: http://uhr.rutgers.edu/benefits/benefits-overview

 Seniority
   Unit
 Terms of   Staff - 12 month
Appointment
 Position
  Pension   ABP
Eligibility

Qualifications

                  ? Master?s Degree in a relevant science and two (2) years of
Minimum Education related research experience is required.
 and Experience   ? A Doctorate in a relevant science may be substituted for
                  two (2) years of experience indicated above.

                  ? Effective oral and written communication skills required.
                  ? Must be computer literate with proficiency in database and
    Required      reporting tools such as Microsoft Word, Excel, Access, and
   Knowledge,     PowerPoint, and working knowledge of SAS statistical
   Skills, and    software.
    Abilities     ? Must have a valid driver?s license and possesses own
                  vehicle or alternative means of transportation from one site
                  to another.

    Preferred     ? Experience in cancer epidemiology, surveillance research,
 Qualifications   cancer registry data, and SQL programming language a plus.

    Equipment
    Utilized
                  Physical Demands:
                  Sitting, standing, walking, talking and hearing. No special
Physical Demands  vision requirements. Lifting up to 25lbs.
    and Work
   Environment    Work Environment:
                  Office environment. Moderate noise.

     Special      ? This multi-site position requires working in Trenton and
   Conditions     New Brunswick, NJ and traveling to various locations
                  throughout the state.

Posting Details

          Posting Number           17ST1057
        Posting Open Date
Special Instructions to Applicants
         Regional Campus           Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences
                                   (RBHS)
       Home Location Campus        Downtown New Brunswick
         Location Details

Affirmative Action/Equal Employment Opportunity Statement

It is university policy to provide equal employment opportunity to all its
employees and applicants for employment regardless of their race, creed, color,
national origin, age, ancestry, nationality, marital or domestic partnership or
civil union status, sex, pregnancy, gender identity or expression, disability
status, liability for military service, protected veteran status, affectional
or sexual orientation, atypical cellular or blood trait, genetic information
(including the refusal to submit to genetic testing), or any other category
protected by law. As an institution, we value diversity of background and
opinion, and prohibit discrimination or harassment on the basis of any legally
protected class in the areas of hiring, recruitment, promotion, transfer,
demotion, training, compensation, pay, fringe benefits, layoff, termination or
any other terms and conditions of employment. For additional information please
see the Non-Discrimination Statement at the following web address: http://
uhr.rutgers.edu/non-discrimination-statement

Supplemental Questions

Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*).

 1. * Do you have a Masters Degree or Higher?
      + Yes - Masters Degree Only
      + Yes - Masters Degree and Doctorate
      + Yes - Doctorate Only
      + Yes - Masters Degree and pursuing Doctorate
      + No
 2. * Do you have a valid Driver's license and two years of driving experience?
      + Yes
      + No

Applicant Documents

Required Documents

 1. Resume

Optional Documents

 1. Cover Letter/Letter of Application

It is university policy to provide equal employment opportunity to all its
employees and applicants for employment regardless of their race, creed, color,
national origin, age, ancestry, nationality, marital or domestic partnership or
civil union status, sex, pregnancy, gender identity or expression, disability
status, liability for military service, protected veteran status, affectional
or sexual orientation, atypical cellular or blood trait, genetic information
(including the refusal to submit to genetic testing), or any other category
protected by law. As an institution, we value diversity of background and
opinion, and prohibit discrimination or harassment on the basis of any legally
protected class in the areas of hiring, recruitment, promotion, transfer,
demotion, training, compensation, pay, fringe benefits, layoff, termination or
any other terms and conditions of employment. For additional information please
see the Non-Discrimination Statement.

  In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and the New
Jersey Law Against Discrimination (NJLAD), if you have a disability and would
like to request an accommodation with regard to your access to and/or your
participation in the application and selection processes (for example, the
online application process or interviews), please call 848-932-4444 or e-mail
us.

Rutgers University is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. If you
have questions about accessibility or trouble accessing this page website
because of a disability, please contact the Unit Computing Manager at
848-932-3864 or felix.arauz@rutgers.edu.

For technical assistance with the applicant tracking system (login, filling out
your application, resetting your password, etc.) please contact the ROCS Help
Desk at 848-932-4444 or ROCS@hr.rutgers.edu.

To learn more about Rutgers University?s commitment to diversity and inclusion
on its campuses, click here.

Copyright ? 2014, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, an equal
opportunity, affirmative action institution.
Contact RU-info at 732-445-info (4639) | Questions? Ask Colonel Henry or text
us at 732-662-2664.

 

