[change_org]

Quantitative Analyst

San Francisco
Data Science
Full-time
Apply for this job

Change.org is the world's largest technology platform for social change. Our
goal is to empower people everywhere to start campaigns around the issues they
care about, mobilize others, and work with decision makers to drive
solutions.We’re also an innovative business – a "social enterprise” and a
certified B Corporation, with a business model designed to support positive
social impact (more about B Corps: www.bcorporation.net).

Over 150 million people have started and signed petitions, and our users win
nearly one victory per hour, including strengthening hate crime legislation in
South Africa; fighting corruption in Indonesia, Italy, and Brazil; ending the
ban on gay Boy Scouts in the United States, and big wins for women’s rights in
India. And we’re just getting started. Here’s a small snapshot of why some of
the 100 million people have signed Change.org petitions: youtu.be/UcT1rgZDko4

We love serving our incredible users, and we love our staff too. We show it
with very competitive salaries, five weeks of vacation, robust maternity and
parental leave, an amazing culture, free language training (if you want it),
and a high impact, low-ego team that can’t wait to learn from you and teach you
what they know.

About The Role:
We’re seeking a Quantitative Analyst to be part of our high-impact, fun-loving
and collaborative team. You’ll be responsible for delivering world-class
analytics products, insight and research.

Our team works closely with internal stakeholders - Product/Business Managers,
Developers and Campaigners to empower them to make data-driven decisions, and
use data/analytics and deep statistics to improve our business. Our team relies
on us for their data needs, dashboards, analytic insight and research to solve
all kinds of issues ranging from feature optimization, engagement/retention
initiatives, understanding key user segments and several others.


Here’s what you’ll do as part of our team:

      □ Provide reporting and performance monitoring on all aspects of our
        Product and Business to enable decision making by our key stakeholders.
      □ Work closely with internal stakeholders and key decision makers to
        analyze trends, key segments, experiments and user behavior patterns on
        our website.
      □ Develop new insights and quantitative research that inform decisions
        and enable our petition starters and signers to continue to have deep
        impact on social good.

And here are the skills & experience we hope you have:

      □ 2+ years of experience as a quantitative analyst in a high-tech or
        startup environment.
      □ Advanced SQL skills (Postgres a plus), with a proven ability to
        manipulate large data sets.
      □ Statistical acumen, experience with data processing tools including
        Excel, R/python or scripting is a plus.
      □ Ability to execute  on large projects and effectively work with
        business partners.
      □ B.S./B.A. in Mathematics, Economics, Finance, Science or other
        technical field.
      □ An inherent passion to effect social change, and a desire to use your
        technical skills for social good.

This is a full-time opportunity, based in San Francisco.

All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without
regard to race, color, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, gender,
gender identity, age, physical disability, or length of time spent unemployed.

We are working for a world where no one is powerless, and where creating change
is a part of everyday life. We're just getting started, and we hope you'll join
us.

Apply for this job

Change.org Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
