[Naming_Are] [logo]

  • Menu
  • Search

[                    ] Go
  • Home
  • Why Bayer
      □ Why Bayer

        [Stadium-Picture]

        We pride ourselves in being research-driven, with businesses in
        CropScience, HealthCare, and MaterialScience.  We are also proud of our
        environmental record, our safety performance, and our manufacturing
        prowess.  You can only imagine our pride at being named one of Fortune
        magazine's most admired companies.
       
        Overview
      □ 
          ☆ Overview
          ☆ Innovation & Solutions
          ☆ Development & Teamwork
          ☆ Better Life & Challenges
          ☆ Reputation & Impact
          ☆ Benefits & Rewards
              ○ Overview
              ○ Competitive Pay
              ○ Work Life Programs
              ○ Wellness Programs
              ○ Benefits
          ☆ Values & Stories
              ○ Overview
              ○ David against Goliath
              ○ Singapore's Supertrees
              ○ Sky-high vegetables
              ○ Bringing light into darkness
              ○ Rice for a hungry planet
              ○ Bridging Distances
              ○ Healthy for Life
  • Working at Bayer
      □ Working at Bayer

        [Our-Employee-Banner]

        Without the dedicated people who work in our labs, offices and
        manufacturing facilities as well as in the field, we would never have
        given the world the variety of Bayer discoveries that bring quality to
        daily life.  Our people remain our most valuable asset, and we provide
        the ongoing training and development they need to remain at the top of
        their respective fields.

        Overview
      □ 
          ☆ Overview
          ☆ Students & Graduates
              ○ Overview
              ○ Internships & Co-ops
                  ■ Overview
                  ■ Bayer CropScience Sales Excellence Internship Program
              ○ International Program for Financial Management (U.S.)
              ○ Commercial Excellence Leadership Program: Sales Excellence
                Associate
              ○ MBA Programs
                  ■ Overview
                  ■ MBA Internship Program - Assistant Brand Manager Intern
                  ■ MBA Internship - Pharmaceutical Marketing
                  ■ MBA Full-Time Opportunity - Assistant Brand Manager
                  ■ MBA Full-Time Opportunity - Senior Business Consultant
                  ■ Commercial Excellence Leadership Program: Commercial
                    Management Trainee
              ○ Entry Level Opportunities
          ☆ Military Professionals & Protected Veterans
          ☆ Experienced Professionals
  • How to Join Us
      □ How to Join Us

        [How-to-Join-Us-Banner]

        Bayer offers employment opportunities at all levels throughout the
        United States and globally.  Recruitment at Bayer occurs continuously
        as new jobs become available.  Therefore, we encourage you to review
        our website to get a feel for who we are, the type of work we do, our
        mission and values, and our employees.

        Overview
      □ 
          ☆ Overview
          ☆ How to Apply
          ☆ Managing Your Profile
          ☆ Your Interview
          ☆ Onboarding
          ☆ FAQ
  • Network with Us
      □ Network with Us

        [Network-with-Us-Banner]

        We would love to stay connected to you.  Join our Bayer communities on
        Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn!

        Overview
      □ 
          ☆ Overview
          ☆ Events
          ☆ Social Media
          ☆ Video Center

  • Home

[EN_Supertr]
Bayer is a global enterprise with core competencies in the Life Science fields
of health care and agriculture. Its products and services are designed to
benefit people and improve their quality of life. At Bayer you have the
opportunity to be part of a culture where we value the passion of our employees
to innovate and give them the power to change.

Computational Biology Scientist II

Your tasks and responsibilities

 

This position will further develop the Computational Life Science platform in
Trait Research: assisting in the search for pesticidal bacteria, mining and
improving their active genes, and creating best-in-class traits for pest,
disease and weed control. This includes many areas of statistics and
bioinformatics.  We are more interested in hiring and developing the best
candidate than we are in one specific skill set. Despite a varied list of
potential projects below, we are interested in someone who can own and drive
transformational research in their chosen field.

 

The primary responsibilities of this role, Computational Biology Scientist II,
are to: 

 

  • Develop and execute molecular and structural bioinformatics-based projects
    focused on weed, disease and pest control;
  • Drive innovative solutions to bottlenecks in our protein engineering
    workflow by designing statistically sound feeding assays and finding novel
    ways to incorporate structural and molecular bioinformatics models to
    suggest target sites for protein improvement;
  • Use machine learning on large genomic and phenomic data sets to find novel
    pesticidal gene classes;
  • Predict binding sites based on comparisons of pesticidal gene secondary
    structure and host-receptor binding assays;
  • Determine which components of genetic networks are required to recapitulate
    a phenotype in a heterologous system.

     

Who you are

 

Your success will be driven by your demonstration of our LIFE values.  More
specifically related to this position, Bayer seeks an incumbent who possesses
the following:

 

Required Qualifications:

 

  • A PhD in bioinformatics, statistics, microbiology, genetics or a

    related field with 0-1 years of relevant experience or a MS with 3+ years
    of relevant experience;

  • Strong mastery of a subset of bioinformatics, machine learning or

    statistics skills;

  • A history of success as a driving force in research projects;

    Demonstrated record of leadership, integrity, flexibility, and

    efficiency working in a technical environment.

Your application

Bayer offers a wide variety of competitive compensation and benefits programs.
If you meet the requirements of this unique opportunity, and you have the
"Passion to Innovate" and the "Power to Change", we encourage you to apply now.
Job postings will remain open for a minimum of ten business days and are
subject to immediate closure thereafter without additional notice. To all
recruitment agencies: Bayer does not accept unsolicited third party resumes.


[PTIPTC]

Bayer is an Equal Opportunity Employer/Disabled/Veterans

 

Bayer is committed to providing access and reasonable accommodations in its
application process for individuals with disabilities and encourages applicants
with disabilities to request any needed accommodation(s) using the contact
information below.

 

Country: United States
Location: NC-Morrisville

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Apply online [search-arr]

Job Search

[Career Level] [Functional Area                      ] [United States       ] 
[Location                      ] [Divisions          ] [                    ] 
Search [search-arr]
For job postings from your selected country please go to
Job Search »
Follow Us

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[facebook_o]    [twitter]    [linkedin]    ●

Your Application Status

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Exciting times!

Bayer has launched a new recruiting system that makes it faster and easier for
you to apply.

 

Track your job applications:

 

Jobs published on or after October 19, 2016

Returning Applicants

 

Jobs published before October 19, 2016

Returning Applicants

 

If you require assistance please Contact us

 

Job Fairs & Career Expos

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━


Events Overview

Resources

[Contact]

 

Bayer is committed to providing access and reasonable accommodations in its
application process for individuals with disabilities and encourages applicants
with disabilities to request any needed accommodation(s) using the contact
information below.
 

 

EEO is the Law

Pay Transparency

 

 

If you have questions regarding the recruiting process or your application,
please visit our FAQ section. 

 

FAQs

 

If you need additional information, click below to contact us directly!

 

Contact Us

 

 

 

Dec 27, 2016   Copyright © Bayer AG
URL: https://career.bayer.us/opencms/opencms/en/job/
Associate-Director-GMP-Operations--SF1442.html

  • General Conditions of Use
  • Privacy Statement
  • Imprint
  • Technical Details

  • Search
  • Contact Us
  • Bayer U.S.
  • Bayer Group

  • Why Bayer
      □ Innovation & Solutions
      □ Development & Teamwork
      □ Better Life & Challenges
      □ Reputation & Impact
      □ Benefits & Rewards
      □ Values & Stories
  • Working at Bayer
      □ Students & Graduates
      □ Military Professionals & Protected Veterans
      □ Experienced Professionals
  • How to Join Us
      □ How to Apply
      □ Managing Your Profile
      □ Your Interview
      □ Onboarding
      □ FAQ
  • Network with Us
      □ Events
      □ Social Media
      □ Video Center

DCSIMG
dcsimg
