Skip Navigation
CVSHealth.com

Main menu

  • About
      □ About
      □ Our Offerings
          ☆ CVS Pharmacy
          ☆ CVS Caremark
          ☆ CVS MinuteClinic
          ☆ CVS Specialty
      □ Leadership
      □ Diversity
          ☆ Equal Opportunity
          ☆ Supplier Diversity
          ☆ Veterans
          ☆ Workforce
          ☆ Multicultural Products and Services
      □ CVS Health At a Glance
      □ Our Story
          ☆ History
  • Social Responsibility
      □ Social Responsibility
      □ Our Giving
          ☆ Foundation Giving
          ☆ Corporate Giving
          ☆ Local Community Support
          ☆ Community Contacts
      □ Corporate Social Responsibility
          ☆ Health in Action
          ☆ Planet in Balance
          ☆ Leader in Growth
          ☆ 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
      □ Be The First Tobacco-Free Generation
          ☆ Tobacco-Free Generation Campus Initiative
      □ Health in Action Blog
  • Thought Leadership
      □ Thought Leadership
          ☆ Health Care Delivery
          ☆ Innovation in Health Care
          ☆ Prescription Drug Abuse
          ☆ Rising Drug Prices
          ☆ Tobacco Prevention & Cessation
      □ CVS Health Research Institute
  • Careers
      □ Careers
          ☆ Advanced Job Search
          ☆ Saved Searches
      □ Hiring Areas
          ☆ Analytics
          ☆ Corporate
          ☆ Customer Care
          ☆ Digital
          ☆ Distribution Center
          ☆ Internships
          ☆ Nurse
          ☆ Pharmacist
          ☆ Pharmacy Technician
          ☆ Retail Store
          ☆ MinuteClinic
          ☆ Pharmacist Fellowships & Residencies
          ☆ Military
      □ Why CVS
          ☆ Awards & Recognition
          ☆ Benefits
          ☆ Application Help
          ☆ Careers Blog
      □ Important Security Alert
  • Newsroom
      □ Newsroom
          ☆ Press Releases
      □ Media Gallery
      □ Media Contacts
      □ Email News Alerts
  • Investors
      □ Investors
      □ Investor Story
          ☆ Our Business Model
          ☆ Growth Drivers
          ☆ Capital Allocation
          ☆ Long Term Targets
      □ Results Center
      □ 2015 in Review
          ☆ CEO's Shareholder Letter
          ☆ What Happens When You Start…With Heart
          ☆ Prescription for a Better World
          ☆ Interactive Annual Report
      □ Financial Information
          ☆ Five-Year Financial Summary
          ☆ Interactive Financial History
          ☆ Fixed Income Information
          ☆ Annual Report Archive
      □ SEC Filings
      □ Events & Presentations
      □ Stock Information
          ☆ Stock Chart
          ☆ Stock Calculator
          ☆ Dividend History
          ☆ Equity Analyst Coverage
          ☆ Cost Basis Calculator
      □ Corporate Governance
          ☆ Leadership
          ☆ Board of Directors
          ☆ Guidelines
          ☆ Committee Composition
          ☆ Documents
      □ Investor Resources
          ☆ Shareholder Services
          ☆ Shareholder Information Request Form
          ☆ FAQs
          ☆ Contacts
          ☆ Investor Alerts

Search form

Search [               ]
[Search]
Other Sites

  • CVS Pharmacy
  • CVS Caremark
  • CVS MinuteClinic
  • CVS Specialty

  • Prescription Help
  • Contact

Search Jobs

Search Jobs

Keyword Search [                    ]

City, State, or ZIP [                    ]

Search radius [Radius  ]

Search Jobs

[generic_se]

Merchandising Careers

Merchandising Careers

You can use your expertise and passion to impact the shopping experiences of
thousands of customers. The Merchandising team at CVS Health is continually
finding new strategies to drive sales — and quickly adjusting those strategies
to meet our changing business needs. Join the nation’s largest pharmacy health
care provider and you’ll work alongside independent thinkers, influencers, and
persuasive communicators. Start searching now for a fulfilling Merchandising
career with us.

Account Management at CVS Health

Share

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • LinkedIn
  • Google+

Job Details

Data Scientist

Apply Now Apply Later Save Job Remove Job View Saved Jobs
Job ID: 529016BR
Business Area: CVS Health
Primary Location: RI ‒ Woonsocket
Other Locations: MA - Boston,
Job Type: Full Time
Job Category: Merchandising, Analytics
Clinical Licensure Required: N/A
Location Code OF001
Position Summary:

CVS is a Fortune 7 company embarking on a journey of evolving its existing
ExtraCare program into a world-class personalization and loyalty program. This
is a top initiative within the company and we have a team dedicated to
recruiting the best talent in the world to help propel us to this goal. The
company has already invested in
state-of-the-art technology and scaling of our loyalty program, now we are
focused on optimizing our customer contact strategy. We are looking for the
best and brightest to in our existing Analytics team and help deliver on this
initiative.

The Data Scientist will be responsible for developing data-driven business
solutions using advanced analytical tools and techniques for enhancing customer
loyalty and growth. As a member of Data Science and Innovation team, this
individual will create analytical engines to drive customer growth through
targeting, segmentation, offer optimization, customer profitability (LTV) and
multi-channel campaign lever optimization (e.g., propensity modeling) and
continuously enhancing analytical tools and processes. This person will play an
integral role in a team reshaping customer centric thinking and execution
across the enterprise. The Data Scientist will report to the Sr. Manager of
Data Science, with consistent exposure and engagement with the Directors and
Sr. Directors.


Responsibilities Include:

  • Identify and develop innovative solutions leveraging advanced analytics to
    support personalization programs and customer strategies, this may include
    targeting, retention, segmentation, offer optimization, multi-channel
    contact cadence, CRM decision engine, and messaging, etc.
  • Develop and manage portfolio of advanced analytics assets (attributes,
    models & solutions), support business use cases to ensure most effective
    use of these assets
  • Utilize modeling software, data management and system requirements, scoring
    process, and predictive model output integration into business systems
  • Evaluates/develops, tools, methodologies or infrastructure building
    capability and fostering innovation
  • Assess new data sources (internal and external) and new metric development
    to foster data innovation
  • Owns execution and delivery of analytical projects and insights to internal
    business partners and presenting to the leadership
  • Partner with cross functional leads on customer growth and execution teams
    to launch these strategies and close loop performance management.
  • Helps and directs others on projects, including project management,
    business problem solving, guidance on methodologies and quality assurance
    of results
  • Managing across multiple projects to ensure successful delivery in a fast
    paced environment
  • Ensuring effective stakeholder relationships



Required Qualifications:

  • 3+ years of experience in customer/marketing analytics and insight
    development, database marketing, marketing research or related fields
  • 3+ years experience with wide variety of Advanced/Statistic Analytics
    techniques, including but not limited to linear/logistic regression, factor
    analysis, generalized linear models, tree models, correspondence and
    cluster analysis, survival analysis, attrition/retention modeling.
    Practical application of these techniques in a retail/loyalty marketing
    setting preferred
  • 3+ SQL experience is a requirement
  • 3+ years of programming skills using SAS, SQL, R/Python



Preferred Qualifications:

  • Strong knowledge & experience of big data systems, tools and technologies
  • Advanced problem solving and structuring skills-including data structuring,
    quantitative reasoning, and implications development
  • Demonstrated capability to deliver work and provide positive leadership in
    a fast-paced, multi-project team-oriented environment. Flexible with
    ambiguity while operating effectively.
  • Advanced degree in statistics, quantitative economics, behavioral
    psychology research or a related field
  • Strategy & analytics experience in retail, consumer packaged goods, OR
    related consulting environment
  • Prior Experience working with Teradata tools and database solutions,
    experience working with SAS



Education:

BA/BS in a quantitative field (e.g., math, statistics, economics, operations
research, computer science, engineering) coupled with strong business acumen.
MS/PHD/MBA preferred



Business Overview:
CVS Health, through our unmatched breadth of service offerings, is transforming
the delivery of health care services in the U.S. We are an innovative,
fast-growing company guided by values that focus on teamwork, integrity and
respect for our colleagues and customers. What are we looking for in our
colleagues? We seek fresh ideas, new perspectives, a diversity of experiences,
and a dedication to service that will help us better meet the needs of the many
people and businesses that rely on us each day. As the nation’s largest
pharmacy health care provider, we offer a wide range of exciting and fulfilling
career opportunities across our three business units – MinuteClinic, pharmacy
benefit management (PBM) and retail pharmacy. Our energetic and
service-oriented colleagues work hard every day to make a positive difference
in the lives of our customers.

CVS Health is an equal opportunity employer. We do not discriminate in hiring
or employment against any individual on the basis of race, ethnicity, ancestry,
color, religion, sex/gender (including pregnancy), national origin, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, physical or mental disability,
medical condition, age, veteran status, military status, marital status,
genetic information, citizenship status, unemployment status, political
affiliation, or on any other basis or characteristic prohibited by applicable
federal, state or local law. CVS Health will not discharge or in any other
manner discriminate against any Colleague or applicant for employment because
such Colleague or applicant has inquired about, discussed, or disclosed the
compensation of the Colleague or applicant or another Colleague or applicant.
Furthermore, we comply with the laws and regulations set forth in the following
EEO is the Law Poster: EEO IS THE LAW

Federal law requires employers to provide reasonable accommodation to qualified
individuals with disabilities. If you require assistance to apply for this job,
please contact us by clicking AA EEO CVS Health

For inquiries related to the application process or technical issues please
contact the Kenexa Helpdesk at 1-855-338-5609. For technical issues with the
Virtual Job Tryout assessment, contact the Shaker Help Desk at 1-877-987-5352.
Please note that we only accept resumes via our corporate website: https://
jobs.cvshealth.com/
Apply Now Apply Later
<-- End ZipRecruiter Job Apply Tag -->

Share

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • LinkedIn
  • Google+

Location Map & Information

Learn about this job location and find nearby amenities.

Map Pin

Related Jobs

  • Strategic Analytics Advisor-Customer Loyalty - ExtraCare 376853BR 
    Woonsocket, Rhode Island
  • Category Strategy Analyst Advisor 464534BR Woonsocket, Rhode Island
  • Senior Category Manager - Healthcare 518981BR Woonsocket, Rhode Island
  • Category Manager - Alcohol 524698BR Woonsocket, Rhode Island

Job Alert Notifications

Sign up to receive the latest career opportunities directly to your inbox.

Email Address[                    ]

Interested InSearch for a category and select one from the list of suggestions.
Search for a location and select one from the list of suggestions. Finally,
click “Add” to create your job alert.

Category[                    ]

Location[                    ]

Add

  • Remove

Confirm Email [                    ]

[Submit]

Learn more about our Privacy Policy.

Application
Process

We’re here to make our application process as easy as possible for you. Here's
what you can expect.

Learn More

[icon-clipb]

Awards &
Recognition

Our hard work's been noticed, and acclaimed.

Learn More

Award / medal

Recruiting News

Find out what we've been doing and how you can join us in doing it.

Learn More

calendar
Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share on Google Plus View
More Sharing Options

Follow CVS Health Careers on Social

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  

Follow us

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • YouTube
  • LinkedIn

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

About CVS Health

Millions of times a day, we’re helping people on their path to better
health—from advising on prescriptions to helping manage chronic and specialty
conditions. Because we’re present in so many moments, big and small, we have an
active, supportive role in shaping the future of health care.

Quick Links

  • Code of Conduct
  • Corporate Integrity Agreement Policy
  • Diversity
  • Ethics & Human Rights
  • Political Activities & Contributions

Corporate Information

  • About
  • Careers
  • Newsroom
  • Thought Leadership
  • Investors

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  • Terms of Use
  • Privacy Policy
  • Patient Privacy
  • Sitemap

© Copyright 1999 - 2017 CVS Health

[p-cQfqYzMP]
