      

     Share                      Email Opening                    Apply Now

            Title  Statistician 

     
        About the  About Amyx                                WE ALSO
     Organization                                            RECOMMEND
                   Amyx, Inc. is a financially strong ISO
                   9001-2008 and ISO 27001-2013 certified    Other Jobs
                   and CMMI-DEV Level 3 appraised small      Within Same
                   business founded in 1999 and              Category
                   headquartered in Reston, Virginia. Amyx's Statistician
                   services include Systems Engineering and  in Los
                   Technical Assistance, Business Process    Angeles, CA
                   Transformation, Financial Support         Posted on: 12/
                   Services, Enterprise Technology Services, 6/2016
                   Cyber Security and Information Assurance, [Apply Now]
                   Program and Acquisition Management. These
                   services, backed by proven solutions, are
                   delivered by a workforce of exceptional   Other Jobs
                   professionals, many of whom possess over  Within 60
                   25 years of experience. Amyx personnel    Miles
                   have strong core values rooted in public  -- None found
                   service and hold an intense belief that   --
                   service to the Government can make a
                   difference.

                   Physical Demands

                   Employee needs to be able to sit at a
                   workstation for extended periods; use
                   hand(s) to handle or feel objects, tools,
                   or controls; reach with hands and arms;
                   talk and hear. Most positions require
                   ability to work on desktop or laptop
                   computer for extended periods of time
                   reading, reviewing/analyzing information,
                   and providing recommendations, summaries
                   and/or reports in written format. Must be
                   able to effectively communicate with
                   others verbally and in writing. Employee
                   may be required to occasionally lift and/
                   or move moderate amounts of weight,
                   typically less than 20 pounds. Regular
                   and predictable attendance is essential.
                    

              EOE  Amyx is an equal opportunity employer and
        Statement  all qualified applicants will receive
                   consideration for employment without
                   regard to race, color, religion, sex,
                   national origin, disability status,
                   protected veteran status, or any other
                   characteristic protected by law. EOE
                   Minority/Female/Veteran/Disabled. Amyx is
                   an E-Verify employer.


                   Why work with Amyx?

                   Amyx values our employees and their hard
                   work and dedication it takes to always
                   exceed our customer's expectations. The
                   Amyx Management team is committed to
                   rewarding that hard work with events
                   where employees can catch up with one
                   another and have a great time. Events are
                   planned for both summer and winter months
                   and that have included a range of options
                   such as major and minor league baseball
                   games, picnics, riverboat cruises, tours,
                   rafting, mystery theaters and dinners.
                   During the holiday event we also take the
                   opportunity to recognize our Quarter of
                   the Month employees and our annual the
                   Amyx Award of Excellence employee for
                   outstanding work that goes above and
                   beyond their everyday job
                   responsibilities.

                    

      Description  Amyx is seeking a Journeyman Statistician
                   for the Quantitate Analytics Unit (QAU)
                   team located at the SEC New York Regional
                   Office (NYRO). The position will support
                   the U.S. Securities and Exchange
                   Commission (SEC) Office of Compliance,                    
                   Inspections and Examinations (OCIE) with
                   a specific focus on working with the QAU
                   team.

                    

                   The National Examination Program has four
                   primary goals:

                   1) detect possible violations of the
                   securities laws and regulations
                   (including fraud)

                   2) foster strong compliance and risk
                   management practices

                   3) monitor risk

                   4) provide the SEC with information about
                   the industry?s compliance and the
                   implementation of rules and laws. The
                   work environment will be dynamic,
                   fast-paced and necessitate that the
                   candidate demonstrate a highly
                   responsive, customer-centric demeanor
                   with all staff.

                   #dice

                    

         Position  Minimum of a Bachelor's degree,
     Requirements  preferably in Computer Science,
                   Engineering, Statistics (Applied
                   Statistics) or Math
                   ? 3 or more years experience in Python,
                   Javascript, C++, C Sharp, PERL or other
                   programming languages
                   ? 3 or more years experience working in
                   Unix/ Linux and Windows environment
                   ? 5 or more years experience with data
                   migrations and data loading into
                   platforms involving both structured and
                   unstructured data and writing/ executing
                   SQL and similar type database queries to
                   prepare and update metadata with expert
                   understanding of data mining tools and
                   techniques (e.g. SQL, Access and Excel
                   and ETL scripts)
                   ? Advanced Microsoft Office Suite (Excel
                   & Access) skills required, including
                   working ability to utilize pivot tables,
                   advanced charting and formulas, and
                   conditional formatting
                   ? Ability to work with remote teams
                   and be self-directed to manage multi-task
                   and prioritize projects workload
                   ? Exceptional analytical, logical, and
                   organizational skills to meet tight
                   deadlines
                   ? Effective written and oral
                   communication skills
                   ? Exceptional analytical and logical
                   skills
                   ? U.S. citizenship required
                   ? Ability to obtain and maintain Public
                   Trust Security clearance

                     * Candidates will work daily with
                       attorneys and wall street/investment
                       bankers to collect information on
                       trades, trades analysis etc.

                    

        Number of  1  
         Openings

       Req Number  INF-16-00003  

         Location  New York, NY  

     
       This position is currently accepting applications.

                           Apply Now





                                              AppOne.com^TM   copyright?1999-2017 HR Services, Inc.
                                                          [hel]Click here for technical assistance.

