Go to our website »

Jobs at Apogee Integration, LLC

« Go back to job listings

Data Steward/Data Scientist

Location: Springfield, VA

Type: Full Time

Min. Experience: Mid Level

Apogee Integration is seeking a Data Steward/Data Scientist to work in
Springfield, VA.

Requirements

  • Have applied knowledge in three distinct areas depending on mission
    requirements. These areas of knowledge include:
  • Applied Mathematics – Statistical and mathematical support to provide
    temporal and pattern analysis, correlation of events, probability analysis,
    assessments of sampling, analysis of variance and error, and regression
    testing and analysis.
  • Programming Skills – Write scripts in Visual Basic, Python, or other
    software for modeling processes, repeatability, efficiency, knowledge
    capture, hypothesis testing and process automation. 
  • Data Stories – Document and visualize data both temporally and spatially to
    assist in data integrity checks, ask the next question, and display
    analytical assessments.
  • Develop tradecraft techniques and solutions for discovery, preparation,
    manipulation and normalization of big data
  • Use mathematical concepts and techniques to solve complex GEOINT analysis
    issues and understand concepts associated with structured data and
    relational databases
  • Primary products will include presenting processed data, visualizations and
    scientific analysis to GEOINT analysts and mangers in support of
    production, and providing Subject Matter Expert (SME) service in various
    forms
  • Interaction directly with NGA/A GEOINT analyst customers as support
    requirements arise, and devise an optimal approach to processing and
    scientifically analyzing data in a timely manner given the available tools
    and techniques
  • Presentation of processed data and scientific analysis to GEOINT analysts
    and managers. Analysts who use disparate data are usually not familiar with
    it, and the resulting analysis must be presented and explained in a manner
    that the customer can understand.  The contractor shall provide results to
    the customer with the requested form and content including project related
    briefings as required. 
  • Support and participation in community forums on an ad-hoc basis.  This
    sometimes requires presentation of technical information or case studies
    resulting from operational support, to include presentations to the
    Commonwealth countries
  • Providing Subject Matter Expert (SME) support to the community, and other
    NGA components and contractors.  Activities may include attending Technical
    Exchange Meetings (TEM); user testing and evaluation of new capabilities
    under development; and advising various NGA directorates
  • Investing new scientific analysis techniques and methods if requirements
    cannot be met in a timely manner with available tools and methods.  This
    could include monitoring the community and industry for new technologies
    that can be inserted for operational use, or the near-term formulation of
    algorithms and applications
  • Explain assumptions, analytical techniques, and statistical results
    effectively in writing and orally to convey intelligence problems being
    resolved
  • Understand the relationship between the data collected for a real-world
    problem and the required structure of a relational database to help solve
    that problem
  • Understanding of deductive reasoning and implementation of the scientific
    method as it applies to GEOINT analysis is also required.
  • Active TS/SCI Required (US Citizenship Required)

About APOGEE INTEGRATION…Applied Intelligence!

For 15 years, our core team of engineering professionals have provided the
domain expertise and integrated products that serve as a primary means of
analysis for leading decision makers throughout the Intelligence Community.  We
are honored to be able to serve our customers and are dedicated to providing
products and services to ensure their long-term success.
Combining innovation with practical results and a proven commitment to customer
care, our full life-cycle expertise covers the continuum of engineering needs:

Aerospace Engineering, Software Engineering, Geospatial Analysis, 3D
Interactive Visualization, Network Engineering, Systems Administration,
Information Assurance, Systems Engineering, Modeling & Simulation, Space
Protection, Enterprise Requirements.

Benefits:

Although clearly focused on The Mission, at APOGEE, we realize that our staff
or APOGEE-niuses are our greatest assets.  We are committed to a high
performance culture and provide an environment that challenges our employees to
be exceptional.  We provide World Class Health & Wellness, Retirement &
Savings, Time Off and Beyond the Basics Benefits.

Health & Wellness

United Healthcare, Metlife Dental, VSP Vision, Life Insurance, Long/Short Term
Disability and Health Savings Account.

Retirement & Savings

Apogee wants to ensure that every Apogee-nius can participate and grow a
meaningful retirement nest egg without losing the flexibility to save for other
goals. To provide this flexibility, the Company provides a 401(k) that enables
Apogee to contribute up to 7% of your gross salary to your retirement.

Apogee 401(k)

Apogee offers a 401(k) plan to all our employees. You are eligible to
participate in the plan beginning on the first of the month following 3 months
of employment. You may contribute up to 20% of your gross wages each pay period
on a pre-tax basis. Apogee will match 100% of your contribution to the 401(k)
up to 7% of your gross salary. The maximum dollar amount you can contribute for
2013, per the IRS, is $17,500. The Vesting period for Apogee matching
contributions is 3 years. The Apogee 401(k) is administered by Fidelity
Investments. Fidelity provides Apogee 401(k) plan users a wide selection of
investment choices including index funds, managed funds, stocks and bonds
tailored for your investments goals and years till retirement. The goal of the
Apogee Retirement Plan is to help you maximize annual retirement growth and
savings while providing you the flexibility to meet other personal financial
goals.

Time Off

26 days off annually from a mixture of fixed, floating and earned personal time
off!

Mobility Bonus

Apogee-niuses are on-the-go!  Apogee provides our Apogee-niuses up to $1000
Mobility Bonus for Broadband Internet and Cellphone services. Apogee has an
on-line time & expense system and interactive website that is integral for our
business processes.   To ensure that you stay in touch with the Apogee-nome,
your customers, and check on the latest Apogee tweets and texts, cellphone
access is key.  This bonus is paid out quarterly in the amount of $250.

Professional Development Assistance (PDA) Plan

Apogee provides its Apogee-niuses with PDA toward management-approved training,
tuition, continuing education, and conferences. Annual cap is $5,250. Apogee
assists by offering software, books and the training you need to excel in your
job. Apogee will purchase for you any approved materials that apply to your
job. 

Apogee Integration is an M/F Disabled and Vet EEO/AA Employer

Reach your peak and become an Apogee-nius! Today!

 

  • Share on Facebook
  • Share on LinkedIn
  • Share on Twitter

Forward this Position
Recipient email address (one)
[                    ]
Your name
[                    ]
Your email address
[                    ]
Enter a message (optional)
[                    ]

[                                        ] 
[                                        ] 
[                                        ] 
Human Check*
[Send Message] [Cancel]

« Go back to job listings

Apply for this Position
* Required fields
[apply_with]
First name*
[                    ]
Last name*
[                    ]
Email address*
[                    ]
Location
[                    ][                    ][                    ]
[                    ]
Phone number*
[                    ]
Resume*

Attach resume or Paste resume

Attach resume as .pdf, .doc, or .docx (limit 2MB) or paste resume

[                    ]

Paste your resume here or attach resume file

[                    ]
[                    ]
Cover Letter
[                    ]
Do you have an Active TS/SCI Security Clearance?*
[-- No answer --]
Who referred you to this position?
[                    ]
Are you willing to relocate?
[No answer]
What’s your highest level of education completed?
[No answer                                  ]
College or University
[                    ]
GPA
[                    ]
Desired salary
[                    ]
Earliest start date?
[                    ]
In 150 characters or fewer, tell us what makes you unique. Try to be creative
and say something that will catch our eye!
[                    ]
References: Please enter names and contact information:
[                    ]
The following questions are entirely optional.
To comply with government Equal Employment Opportunity / Affirmative Action
reporting regulations, we are requesting (but NOT requiring) that you enter
this personal data. This information will not be used in connection with any
employment decisions, and will be used solely as permitted by state and federal
law. Your voluntary cooperation would be appreciated. Learn more.
Gender
[Decline to answer]
Race
[Decline to answer                    ]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Invitation for Job Applicants to Self-Identify as a U.S. Veteran

  • A “disabled veteran” is one of the following:
      □ a veteran of the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service who is
        entitled to compensation (or who but for the receipt of military
        retired pay would be entitled to compensation) under laws administered
        by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; or
      □ a person who was discharged or released from active duty because of a
        service-connected disability.
  • A “recently separated veteran” means any veteran during the three-year
    period beginning on the date of such veteran's discharge or release from
    active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval, or air service.
  • An “active duty wartime or campaign badge veteran” means a veteran who
    served on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service
    during a war, or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has
    been authorized under the laws administered by the Department of Defense.
  • An “Armed forces service medal veteran” means a veteran who, while serving
    on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service,
    participated in a United States military operation for which an Armed
    Forces service medal was awarded pursuant to Executive Order 12985.

Veteran status
( ) I IDENTIFY AS ONE OR MORE OF THE CLASSIFICATIONS OF PROTECTED VETERAN
LISTED ABOVE
( ) I AM NOT A PROTECTED VETERAN
(*) I DON’T WISH TO ANSWER
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Voluntary Self-Identification of Disability
Voluntary Self-Identification of Disability Form CC-305
OMB Control Number 1250-0005
Expires 1/31/2017
Why are you being asked to complete this form?

Because we do business with the government, we must reach out to, hire, and
provide equal opportunity to qualified people with disabilities.^i To help us
measure how well we are doing, we are asking you to tell us if you have a
disability or if you ever had a disability. Completing this form is voluntary,
but we hope that you will choose to fill it out. If you are applying for a job,
any answer you give will be kept private and will not be used against you in
any way.

If you already work for us, your answer will not be used against you in any
way. Because a person may become disabled at any time, we are required to ask
all of our employees to update their information every five years. You may
voluntarily self-identify as having a disability on this form without fear of
any punishment because you did not identify as having a disability earlier.

How do I know if I have a disability?

You are considered to have a disability if you have a physical or mental
impairment or medical condition that substantially limits a major life
activity, or if you have a history or record of such an impairment or medical
condition.

Disabilities include, but are not limited to:

  • Blindness
  • Deafness
  • Cancer
  • Diabetes
  • Epilepsy
  • Autism
  • Cerebral palsy
  • HIV/AIDS
  • Schizophrenia
  • Muscular dystrophy
  • Bipolar disorder
  • Major depression
  • Multiple sclerosis (MS)
  • Missing limbs or partially missing limbs
  • Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
  • Obsessive compulsive disorder
  • Impairments requiring the use of a wheelchair
  • Intellectual disability (previously called mental retardation)

Please check one of the boxes below:

( ) YES, I HAVE A DISABILITY (or previously had a disability)
( ) NO, I DON’T HAVE A DISABILITY
(*) I DON’T WISH TO ANSWER


[                    ] [                    ]
Your Name              Today's Date

Reasonable Accommodation Notice

Federal law requires employers to provide reasonable accommodation to qualified
individuals with disabilities. Please tell us if you require a reasonable
accommodation to apply for a job or to perform your job. Examples of reasonable
accommodation include making a change to the application process or work
procedures, providing documents in an alternate format, using a sign language
interpreter, or using specialized equipment.


^iSection 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. For more
information about this form or the equal employment obligations of Federal
contractors, visit the U.S. Department of Labor’s Office of Federal Contract
Compliance Programs (OFCCP) website at www.dol.gov/ofccp.


PUBLIC BURDEN STATEMENT: According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 no
persons are required to respond to a collection of information unless such
collection displays a valid OMB control number. This survey should take about 5
minutes to complete.

Social recruiting and Applicant Tracking System [Submit Application] [Cancel]
Social recruiting and Applicant Tracking System
