      

     Share                      Email Opening                    Apply Now

            Title  Data Scientist/Software Engineer 

     
         Category  Engineering  

      Description  Systems & Technology Research (STR) is
                   seeking data scientists and software
                   engineers to support exciting new
                   projects in the Washington, DC area. 
                   This posting is for one or more full time
                   positions that require an active TS//SCI
                   clearance.

                   STR is a small, employee-owned, rapidly
                   growing business focused on research and
                   development (R&D) for the defense and
                   intelligence communities.  At STR
                   (www.stresearch.com), we harness the
                   power of technology to solve challenging
                   national security problems. Our nation's
                   military and intelligence services employ
                   advanced technologies at all echelons,
                   from central commands to battlefields, to
                   create strategic and tactical advantage.
                   Our mission is to provide this advantage
                   through the development and delivery of
                   innovative sensors and information
                   processing capabilities. Applications
                   include data analytics, cyber security,
                   video and image understanding, and
                   command and control.

                   This position will directly support
                   government customers at their site and
                   will be based out of STR?s Arlington, VA
                   office, while interfacing regularly with
                   colleagues in Woburn, MA. 

                   Job Description:

                     * Develop tools and techniques for
                       characterizing very large,
                       multi-modal data sets, which can be
                       applied to problems in graph
                       analytics, text analytics,
                       activity-based intelligence, and
                       discovery of patterns of life.
                     * Transition and integrate user-facing
                       software tools that empower analysts
                       to explore complex data in novel ways
                     * Collaborate within a
                       multi-disciplinary team to research
                       new data exploitation, machine
                       learning algorithms and system
                       concepts
                     * Interact with military and
                       intelligence users to identify and
                       implement mission-centric technical
                       capabilities
                     * Position may involve travel to
                       customer meetings and/or data
                       collections and experiments

                    
                                                                             
                    

         Position  Basic Qualifications:
     Requirements
                     * US citizenship is required, must have
                       an active TS//SCI clearance
                     * Must be able to work at multiple
                       locations in the Washington, DC area
                     * PhD, MS, or BS degree with relevant
                       experience in computer science,
                       applied mathematics, electrical
                       engineering, physics, or related
                       technical discipline
                     * Strong scientific programming skills
                       in Python, Java, MATLAB, and/or C/C++
                     * Ability to rapidly prototype new
                       algorithm concepts and ideas and make
                       insightful decisions on research
                       directions to enhance system
                       performance
                     * Ability to translate customer
                       requirements into focused technical
                       activities
                     * Strong communication skills and the
                       ability to describe complex concepts
                       to fellow researchers as well as to
                       non-technical audiences
                     * Level of experience is flexible

                    

                   STR seeks to provide an outstanding work
                   environment for its employees with
                   excellent benefits and competitive
                   compensation.  Full-time employees enjoy
                   company profit sharing, 401(k), health
                   and welfare benefits, subsidies for
                   training and conference attendance to
                   foster continued learning and
                   development, a parking or public transit
                   allowance for DC area employees, and a
                   casual yet intellectually challenging
                   work environment. Join our dynamic
                   entrepreneurial team, become part of our
                   fast growing company, help us make a
                   difference in the world, and share in our
                   continuing success.

                    

       Req Number  ENG-16-00005  

              EOE  We are an equal employment opportunity
        Statement  employer. All qualified applicants will
                   receive consideration for employment
                   without regard to race, color, religion,
                   gender, national origin, disability
                   status, protected veteran status or any
                   other characteristic protected by law.  

     
       This position is currently accepting applications.

                           Apply Now





                                              AppOne.com^TM   copyright?1999-2017 HR Services, Inc.
                                                          [hel]Click here for technical assistance.

