    
[on_logo_le] [on_logo_ri] [on_logo_mo]

  • INITIATIVES
      □ Education
      □ Emerging Tech
      □ Financial Inclusion
      □ Government & Citizen Transparency
      □ Property Rights
  • INVESTEES
  • IDEAS
      □ Spotlight
      □ Blog
      □ Newsroom
      □ Library
  • PEOPLE
  • OFFICES
      □ Silicon Valley
      □ Johannesburg
      □ London
      □ Mumbai
      □ Washington, D.C.
  • ABOUT
      □ Who We Are
      □ Investment Approach
      □ Newsroom
      □ Financials
      □ Values & Policies
      □ Contact

[                    ] 
« View all jobs
Data Scientist (Seattle, WA or Chicago, IL) at Code.org
Seattle, WA, US / Chicago, IL, US
Apply for this job
Job Summary:

At Code.org we create and support computer science curriculum that reaches
millions of students, and we prepare tens of thousands of teachers to begin
teaching computer science each year. The core function of the Data Scientist
role is to help us gain an increasingly deeper and better understanding of two
very important high-level questions:

How much are our students learning? (and how can we improve the outcome?)
How effective is our teacher professional development? (and how can we improve
the outcome?)
We already have tons of indicators, stats and data, but these very big
questions go beyond a few database queries or analytics stats. Our Code Studio
platform has become the most popular coding platform in K-12, and every single
line of code written by students contributes to data we could analyze to
improve student learning. We can look at how students and teachers find our
courses, how they start them, how they answer each puzzle, the places they
solve things correctly, the common mistakes people make, areas students get
stuck, and more.

We’re looking for someone who’s passionate about understanding and using data-
someone who wants to ask questions and find answers. Prior experience as a data
scientist is a must; educational experience is a plus, but not required. We
have lots of education/curriculum experts on the team - we need your help
understanding how we can use our data to do more.

The responsibility in this job isn't just to answer analytic questions but
ultimately to help the team improve outcomes for students, teachers, and
schools. This role will help establish the questions to ask in the first place,
figure out how to answer them, and ensure we are measuring and collecting the
right data across our education products, services, and processes.

Job responsibilities will include:

Helping decide what questions we should be asking of our data
Analyzing data from the website to understand how we can improve outcomes
including:
Optimizing courses to be engaging, challenging (but not too challenging) and to
increase student learning and coding proficiency outcomes
Gaining a deep understanding about our teachers and their experiences in our
professional learning programs in order to help them be successful in the
classroom
Recruiting teachers and students, retaining users, and increasing engagement
Suggesting new data we can/should collect or experiments we should run
Working with others to craft measurement protocols and assessments we can use
to track student learning and teacher preparedness
Writing code/scripts/queries as well as using Tableau (or other tools you
recommend) to analyze the data and find answers
Working with teams across Code.org (product management, professional learning,
curriculum, outreach) to design and create actionable dashboards
Creating data models to predict outcomes and test experiments Generating
reports for donors and fundraising purposes
Collaborating with third party evaluators and external researchers from
universities evaluating our work in the classrooms
Experience and Qualifications:

The ideal candidate has a breadth of experience and qualifications:

A degree in computer science, applied math, or statistics, with multiple years
of experience in data and statistical analysis
Strong analytical skills with attention to detail and the ability to create
clear reports to communicate actionable findings to others
Ability to communicate effectively with both technical and non-technical
audiences to fully understand the experiences of our students, teachers, and
facilitators resulting in significantly deeper learning and impact.
A deep familiarity with traditional web-based analytics and data analysis tools
- such as Google Analytics, SQL, Redshift, and map reduce. You’ll be working
with a Data Engineer on our team who will write production code and implement
changes to how we store data from our service. You should be experienced
writing scripts to analyze data with at least one analytic programming language
(R or Python)
Knowledge of visualization/analysis tools including Tableau and spreadsheets
Experience with using web-based analysis and A/B testing to measure/improve
online usage
Experience analyzing data around customer retention and engagement for an
online app or website
To apply, please email resume, cover letter, and/or LinkedIn profile.
Apply for this job
Careers Powered by VentureLoop - Partner Company Sign In

Initiatives

  • Education
  • Emerging Tech
  • Financial Inclusion
  • Governance & Citizen Engagement
  • Property Rights

Resources

  • Blog
  • Newsroom
  • Library
  • Investee Jobs
  • Press Kit

About

  • Who We Are
  • Offices
  • People
  • Financials
  • Contact

Social

  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • LinkedIn
  • [menu_icon_]Google+
  • [menu_icon_]RSS

Omidyar Network is a philanthropic investment firm. We create opportunity for
people to improve their lives by investing in market-based efforts that
catalyze economic and social change.

Copyright NoticeTerms of UseTrademark NoticePrivacy Policy
© 2017 Omidyar Network A part of The Omidyar Group [on_footer_]
