Legendary Applied Analytics Careers

Data Specialist (Boston): 1608-2015

Quantitative Analytics Boston, Massachusetts

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Apply

Description

General Overview

Legendary is a leading global media company with film, television, digital and
comics divisions dedicated to owning, producing and delivering innovative
content like Jurassic World, Godzilla, and The Dark Knight to mainstream
audiences with a targeted focus on the powerful fandom demographic. In
aggregate, Legendary Pictures-associated productions have realized grosses of
more than $10 billion worldwide at the box office.  A trusted brand built on
quality and authenticity, we create unmissable cultural event properties and
breathe life into the most epic myths of our time.

Legendary?s Applied Analytics division sources and leverages emerging data sets
to quantitatively model, predict, and influence consumer purchasing decisions
in the entertainment industry and beyond.  Based in Boston, Legendary?s Applied
Analytics division is a major strategic initiative for the company, supported
with more than 60 full time staff.  A highly innovative, rapidly growing group
within one of Hollywood?s most successful film studios, Legendary Applied
Analytics is unique within the industry.

Applied Analytics is seeking data specialists with strong skills and the
capacity to learn about analytics, information management, and programming
looking for an opportunity in a fast paced business environment within a
dynamic industry.  The Specialist will work with a diverse team of data
scientists and business strategists to advance Legendary?s and our partner?s
measurement and understanding of dynamic marketplaces in entertainment and
other consumer industries, and our targeted advertising to consumers at the
individual level.  Applied Analytics? areas of impact include Legendary
entertainment properties spanning film, TV, and sports and extend to other
domains and consumer brands. 

Examples of data specialist projects include:

  * Manipulating millions to billions of records of consumer data attributes,
    social media posts, and other data to execute targeting strategies for
    marketing campaigns.
  * Applying cutting edge natural language processing methods developed by our
    quantitative research team to explore, model, and interpret the millions of
    social media posts related to Legendary and our partners? properties.

This role will provide the opportunity to work on exciting new properties in
film and throughout entertainment, to learn and participate in the development
of novel and creative statistical methodologies for the analysis of unique
datasets, and to deliver impactful analytical results to Applied Analytics
strategists and researchers.

This position is based in Boston.

Responsibilities include, but will not be limited to:

  * Focus on application of data engineering solutions and statistical models
    for large datasets from across the entertainment industry and beyond
  * Use data to interpret and predict consumer decision-making behavior
    throughout entertainment
  * Learn and apply code and models from our team?s toolkit of statistical and
    analytical methodologies for industry-specific, social media, and consumer
    records datasets
  * Being an active member of Legendary?s Analytics Delivery Team -- comprising
    strategists and business intelligence experts with MBAs and decades of
    combined applied industry experience
  * Interacting closely with Legendary's Quantitative Research Team --
    comprising researchers with PhD's and advanced degrees in the
    computational, physical, and social sciences

Required qualifications:

  * Bachelor?s degree in computational or computer science, statistics,
    mathematics, business analytics, economics, physical sciences, information
    management or a related field
  * Fast learner and a proven record of contributing to teams pursuing
    analytical projects
  * Experience in the analysis and visualization of large, complex datasets   
  * Proficiency with the python scientific computing stack (e.g. numpy, scipy,
    pandas, matplotlib)
  * Proficiency with the unix command line
  * Applicants must be currently authorized to work in the United States on a
    full-time basis.

Recommended qualifications:

  * Bachelor's degree and 1 or more years applied experience in a related field
  * Fluency with one or more of the following numerical computation
    environments: python, R, matlab
  * Demonstrable experience in communicating research methods and results to
    both technical and non-technical audiences in a business setting
  * Experience executing and/or interpreting the results of machine learning
    and statistical modeling projects
  * Proficiency with retrieving data from databases and data warehouses and
    interacting with version control systems

Apply Apply Later
? Back to Current Openings
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Share

LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Email
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Similar Jobs

{{ job.title }}

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Powered by Jobvite

