In order to access this site, you need to enable Javascript. To change this
setting, please refer to your browser's documentation. In order to access this
site, you need to enable Javascript. To change this setting, please refer to
your browser's documentation. In order to access this site, you need to enable
Javascript. To change this setting, please refer to your browser's
documentation. In order to access this site, you need to enable Javascript. To
change this setting, please refer to your browser's documentation. In order to
access this site, you need to enable Javascript. To change this setting, please
refer to your browser's documentation.In order to access this site, you need to
enable Javascript. To change this setting, please refer to your browser's
documentation.In order to access this site, you need to enable Javascript. To
change this setting, please refer to your browser's documentation. In order to
access this site, you need to enable Javascript. To change this setting, please
refer to your browser's documentation.


[pixel]       Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Current [pixel]
                Home                                 Search                                Search                                 Job                                                                                                                                                                               View help for this window Help [p] *
                                                    openings                               results                              details
 
# Job details #  
[pixel]         [pixel]
[pixel]

[pixel]
                                Job 1 of 1
[pixel]

        [Apply to job]    [Send to friend]    [Save to cart]   

[pixel]

Title             Senior Data Scientist (IS Centers Of Excellence)

Job Function      Information Systems

City              Chicago

State             IL

Facility Name     Off-Site Employees (Corp Use)
(Location)

Pay Type          Exempt

Position Number   10270405 Sr Data Scientist

Full Time / Part  Full Time
Time

Shift             1

Relocation        No
Covered

Job Description   Location: This position can sit in either the
                  Northwest Arkansas, Chicago, or St. Louis location.

                  SUMMARY: As a team member of the Information Systems
                  Center of Excellence at Tyson Foods, you will be a
                  critical thought leader of the newly formed data
                  science practice. This role will participate in
                  developing and leading the IS Center Of Excellence
                  analytic capability building program. Apply deep,
                  creative, rigorous thinking to solve broad business
                  problems using advanced analytics and big data skill
                  leadership and direct engagement of business leaders.
                  Give a structure to a business problem that can be
                  analyzed with the available data, and where necessary,
                  gather, manipulate, and analyze large data sets from
                  multiple sources. Initiate and drive insights into
                  enterprise-wide analytic initiatives. Mentor data
                  scientists in algorithm development and corporate and
                  industry-wide analytics. Master the basics of machine
                  learning and harness the power of data to forecast and
                  predict patterns. Execute research and analytics,
                  including data sources identification, processing,
                  model/algorithm development, turning insights into
                  actionable recommendation, presenting actionable
                  recommendation and drive actions to business value
                  creation. Possesses exceptional business acumen and
                  collaborateclosely with various functional groups such
                  as Product, Sales, Supply Chain, Marketing, and
                  Technology. Identify and understand business problems
                  from the perspective of business strategy, execution,
                  and operations, and solve problems thathave the most
                  value to the company. Propagate the power of
                  predictive analysis to the business, and develop
                  business cases to illustrate the improvements in
                  decision-making from this data science.

                  REQUIREMENTS:
                  Ability to apply knowledge of multidisciplinary
                  business principles and practices to achieve
                  successful outcomes in cross-functional projects and
                  activities

                  Application of mathematical methods in predictive
                  analytics, including regression, forecasting, risk
                  modeling methods, and other advanced computational
                  concepts.

                  Experience with statistical analysis, quantitative
                  analytics, and/or forecasting/predicting analytics to
                  solve problems and deliver real value.

                  Experience with applying machine learning using
                  distributed systems like Hadoop, Hive, Spark or
                  similar libraries.
                  Proficiency across most modeling & machine learning
                  techniques (regression, tree models, survival
                  analysis, cluster analysis, forecasting, anomaly
                  detection, association rules)

                  Leveraging data visualization and analytic tools to
                  grasp the business building insights in our data for
                  solving ad hoc business problems, innovating on
                  potential future solutions, and working with
                  technology partners to translate innovations into
                  robust, scaled, analytic solutions.

                  Proven experience with driving new methods to analyze
                  structured and unstructured data; introduces novel
                  visualization and presentation paradigms to
                  communicate discoveries.

                  Be able to acquire and organize new data sets, mine
                  data for patterns, visually represent data, and
                  develop machine learning algorithms.

                  Transform data into impactful business insights and
                  expose opportunities, strategy recommendations and
                  implementationplans to improve key performance metrics
                  for the business.

                  Evaluate model output, formulate and test hypotheses,
                  weigh alternatives, and determine appropriate
                  responses.

                  Experience with deploying algorithms/data products
                  into a production environment

                  Experience working in an Agile software development
                  environment Lead projects effectively in an
                  independent manner with minimal direct supervision.

                  Education: MS+ with concentration in quantitative
                  disciplines - Statistics, Mathematics, Operations
                  Research, Computer Science, Engineering, Economics,
                  Quantitative Social Science or similar discipline.
                   
                  8-10 years within data analysis field or discipline. 
                                 
                  Communications Skills: Be effective communicators,
                  self-motivated, and able to drive insights into
                  actions that improve business results.

                  Demonstrated leadership in applying analytic
                  techniques to deliver actionable insights from data,
                  strong written and verbal communication skills to
                  influence others to take action, and demonstrated
                  ability to handle multiple priorities.

                  Effectively communicate findings and solutions to a
                  variety of audiences.

                  Communicate complex data or algorithms into simple
                  conclusions that will empower others to drive action
                  based on the insights you derive.

Position-Specific   * Extensive knowledge and understanding of data,
Requirements          research, and analysis
                    * Strong analytical skills with high attention to
                      detail and accuracy
                    * Excellent verbal, written, and interpersonal
                      communication skills
                    * Ability to think creatively to find innovative
                      solutions to complex analytical questions
                    * Ability to work in a fast paced deadline driven
                      environment

                   
                   

Req ID            48485BR

        [Apply to job]    [Send to friend]    [Save to cart]   


   Tyson is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified
 applicants will be considered without regard to race, national origin, color,
 religion, age, genetics, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability
                              or veteran status.
                              Disability Friendly
Index Monitor
