Curriculum Associates We are winners! Take a look at our awards

  • Home
  • Get to Know Us
  • Perks and Benefits
  • Opportunities
  • I've Applied - What's Next?
  • Get Social with CA

Research Analyst

Research North Billerica, Massachusetts

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Apply

Description

The Research Analyst will use analytical, technical, and organizational skills
to conduct analyses of educational assessment data produced by the i-Ready
suite of assessments. In this role, you will work closely with a wide variety
of internal teams and external experts to ensure a high level of quality across
Curriculum Associates products, data assets, and reports. Successful candidates
will demonstrate excellent communication and technical writing skills, strong
analytical skills, a passion for research, and a desire to serve the
information needs of schools and districts.

Impact you'll have: 
You will be responsible for conducting a broad range of quantitative and
qualitative research related to Curriculum Associates’ suite of assessment and
instruction products. Typical responsibilities include:

  • Execute analysis of school and district data to help inform school’s
    instructional strategies
  • Conduct data analysis and summarize findings in response to customer
    requests
  • Participate in the scoping, planning, and execution of complex research
    projects
  • Craft detailed reports based on national research efforts, summarizing
    findings and implications
  • Execute custom research, responding to school and district requests for
    information and analysis. Example projects include:
  • Student growth reporting
  • Student performance reporting
  • Benchmarking and norming data
  • Serve as an expert to internal and external customers on the data and
    interpretation of Curriculum Associates’ reports and analysis tools
  • Maintain technical documentation for assessment products; use information
    collected from a broad spectrum of research activities to inform technical
    documentation and improve product support materials
  • Collect feedback from customers across the country to inform product
    development decisions and continuously improve on Curriculum Associates’
    suite of assessment and instruction products

What we're looking for:  
Successful candidates will thrive in a fast-paced environment and demonstrate a
record of achievement. Additional qualifications include:

  • Excellent communication and technical writing skills
  • Excellent project management and problem-solving skills
  • Proficient in Microsoft Office and statistical software such as SAS and
    SPSS
  • Knowledge of research design principles and experience with applied
    statistics, ideally in education research
  • BS in education, psychology, computer science, or related areas
  • Master’s degree strongly preferred


Salary
Commensurate with experience; excellent benefits.

Apply Apply Later
← Back to Current Openings
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Share

LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Email
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Curriculum Associates, LLC is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Curriculum
Associates, LLC will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for
employment because of race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin, age,
marital status, veteran status, sexual preference, disability, genetic
information, or any other category protected by law. Curriculum Associates, LLC
will grant employment, without regard to race, color, creed, religion, sex,
national origin, age, marital status, veteran status, sexual preference,
disability, genetic information, or any other category protected by law. Such
action shall include, but not be limited to, the following: employment,
upgrading, demotion, transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff
or termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.

Our company uses E-Verify to confirm the employment eligibility of all newly
hired employees. To learn more about E-Verify, including your rights and
responsibilities, please visit www.dhs.gov/E-Verify.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Powered by Jobvite

Back to Top
