

  Individuals & Families  Employers & Organizations  Health Care Professionals   Producers     About Us                   News & Analysis
                                                                                                                                         

Aetna


 
                                                                      ?     [p]
[pixel]       Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Current [pixel]
                page                                  page                                  page                                 page
                Home                                 Search                                Search                                 Job                                                                                                          
                                                    openings                               results                              details
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
   # Job details
                  
   [pixel]                                    [pixel]
   [pixel]

  [pixel]
                                  Job 1 of 1
  [pixel]
                                                                               
              Apply to job   Save to cart   View similar jobs  

   [pixel]

   Posting Job    Sr. Data Scientist
   Title

   EEO Statement  Aetna is an Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action
                  Employer

   Req#           36918BR

   Primary        MA-Wellesley
   Location

   Locations      MA-Wellesley
                  CT-Hartford
                  NY-New York

   Percent of
   Travel         0 - 10%
   Required

   Potential
   Telework       No
   Position

   Full or Part   Full Time
   Time

   Supervisory    No

   Job            Looking for opportunities to use cutting edge
   Description    technologies analyzing petabytes of data in a world class
                  Hadoop cluster finding useful insights and innovative
                  ways to guide consumers in their journey to wellness and
                  helping them achieve their health ambitions whether its
                  playing tackle football with their grandkids or running
                  the Inca Trail Marathon? Aetna's Consumer Engagement team
                  is focused on delivering strategically-impactful products
                  to our members across all life stages to feel the joy of
                  achieving their best health, in their own way. Join us
                  and take part in our pursuit of empowering our consumers
                  to take control their healthcare outcomes and be their
                  trusted partner in their personal journey to wellness! We
                  are currently seeking an Sr. Data Scientist in our
                  Wellesley, MA; New York, NY or Hartford, CT; location.

                  
                  Position Summary: The position will work with a
                  cross-functional team, delivering analytical projects
                  related to customer engagement, segmentation, targeting,
                  customer life time value, partnering with internal and
                  external clients to solve important health care
                  challenges. The role will be responsible for extraction
                  and manipulation of data from multiple, large data
                  sources and using the data to deliver solutions and
                  insights through business intelligence tools.

                  
                  Fundamental Components:

                  ? The role will apply analytical rigor and statistical
                  methods to analyze large amounts of data and develop
                  insights.

                  ? Performs applied statistical research and custom
                  analysis of integrated healthcare data, interprets
                  results, and makes recommendations based on analytic
                  findings to business areas.

                  ? Makes recommendations about data collection methods,
                  metrics definition and evaluation methods.

                  ? Defines and delivers analytical solutions in support of
                  healthcare business initiatives that drive short and long
                  term objectives.

                  ? Collaborates with internal and external partners and
                  organizations in the design and execution of analytic
                  studies to answer business and research questions.

                  ? Designs and conducts analyses and outcome studies using
                  healthcare claims, pharmacy, lab, consumer data,
                  employing appropriate research designs and statistical
                  methods.

                  ? Develops, validates and executes algorithms,
                  statistical models and business intelligence tools that
                  answer applied research and business questions.

                  ? Develops and participates in presentations and
                  consultations to internal and external clients.

                  ? Ability to utilize Business Intelligence tools
                  (Tableau) to develop insights.

                  ? Demonstrated project management and/or team lead
                  experience.

                  ? Demonstrated extensive and diverse knowledge of
                  customer engagement metrics, health care data, systems
                  and standards; demonstrated subject matter expert in
                  multiple subject areas.

                  ? Ability to communicate statistical and technical ideas
                  and results to non-technical clients in written and
                  verbal form.

                  ? Strong collaboration and communication skills within
                  and across teams.

                  ? Strong problem solving skills and critical thinking
                  ability.

                  ? Expert knowledge of segmentation, targeting, predictive
                  modeling, multivariate analyses/optimization, and
                  behavioral economics.

                   

                  Background/Experience:

                  ? 5+ years of health research, customer engagement/
                  analytics experience.

                  ? Well-versed in statistical model building and concepts.

                  ? Expert level SQL skills.

                  ? Experience using R or Python to manipulate large
                  datasets and develop statistical models.

                  ? Knowledge of data management in a Hadoop environment,
                  including use of Hive.

                  
                  Education:

                  ? The highest level of education desired for candidates
                  in this position is a Master's degree.

                   

                   

                  Additional Job Information:

                  Aetna continues to build a world-class Data Science
                  organization to capture data, understand context,
                  generate insights and react in real time. We engage our
                  business partners, providing solutions to improve the
                  consumer experience, increase efficiencies, and optimize
                  health outcomes for our members through leveraging
                  cutting edge technology.

                   

                  Aetna is about more than just doing a job. This is our
                  opportunity to re-shape healthcare for America and across
                  the globe. We are developing solutions to improve the
                  quality and affordability of healthcare. What we do will
                  benefit generations to come.

                  We care about each other, our customers and our
                  communities. We are inspired to make a difference, and we
                  are committed to integrity and excellence. Together we
                  will empower people to live healthier lives.

                  Aetna is an equal opportunity & affirmative action
                  employer. All qualified applicants will receive
                  consideration for employment regardless of personal
                  characteristics or status. We take affirmative action to
                  recruit, select and develop women, people of color,
                  veterans and individuals with disabilities.

                  We are a company built on excellence. We have a culture
                  that values growth, achievement and diversity and a
                  workplace where your voice can be heard.



                  Benefit eligibility may vary by position. Click here to
                  review the benefits associated with this position.

   Employment     Regular
   Type

   Career Band    Professional
   Description
                                                                               
              Apply to job   Save to cart   View similar jobs  
                                                                               


  * Glossary
  * Web Privacy
  * Health Care Reform

  * Site Map
  * Legal Statement
  * Careers

  * FAQs
  * Program Provisions
  * Investor Info

  * Legal Notices
  * Member Disclosure

  * Privacy Information
  * State Directory

Copyright ? 2001-2016 Aetna Inc.
Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn

