     [sei_cmu_un]

     Share                      Email Opening                    Apply Now

           Title  Machine Learning Research Scientist -
                  2004504 

                  We are an equal employment opportunity
                  employer. All qualified applicants will
             EOE  receive consideration for employment
       Statement  without regard to race, color, religion,
                  gender, national origin, disability
                  status, protected veteran status or any
                  other characteristic protected by law.

      

     
     Description  Position Summary: Join us at the Software
                  Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon
                  University, home of CERT. Our team uses
                  statistics and machine learning to
                  influence our national cybersecurity
                  strategy and protect our nation against
                  cyber-related threats. A sampling of our
                  current projects include:

                   

                    * Predicting cyber attacks using
                      cybersecurity incident data
                    * Engineering efficient data intake,
                      processing, and reporting streams for
                      a variety of intelligence-related data
                    * Developing metrics and experimental
                      designs for large-scale cybersecurity
                      research programs
                    * Classifying malware for our malware
                      reverse engineers
                    * Creating automated netflow
                      classification tools for our network
                      monitoring team

                   

                  As part of your work, you will also have a
                  chance to co-author research proposals,
                  execute studies, and present findings to
                  DoD sponsors and at academic conferences.

                   

                  Minimum Qualifications and Requirements:

                  Education/Training: Bachelor of Science in
                  CS, Math, Machine Learning, Stats, or
                  related discipline, with relevant
                  internship experience. Relevant
                  professional work experience in software
                  engineering or security a plus. Core
                  competencies include fluency in
                  statistical theory and statistical                         
                  computing (Python-pandas, R, SQL, etc),
                  superior teamwork skills, and exemplary
                  communication skills.

                  Other: Candidates will be subject to a
                  background check and must be eligible to
                  obtain and maintain a Department of
                  Defense security clearance.

                   

                  Physical Mobility: Normally sedentary
                  position with some mobility; able to
                  travel to various SEI locations; may
                  require some bending, stretching, pushing
                  as well as lifting several reams of paper;
                  dexterity to operate formal document
                  assembly equipment.

                  Environmental Conditions: Usual office
                  setting; close contact with CRT for long
                  periods of time.

                  Mental: Ability to handle multiple tasks
                  simultaneously; ability to successful
                  complete task under inflexible time and
                  quality pressure; ability to remain calm
                  and composed when dealing with difficult
                  people, situations, and frequent
                  interruptions.

                   

                   Carnegie Mellon University is an EEO/
                  Affirmative Action Employer ? M/F/
                  Disability/Veteran.

                   

                   

                   

                   

                   

             Job  Cyber Security 
      Categories


     
       This position is currently accepting applications.

                           Apply Now



     Follow  [facebook-i] [TwitterIco]         See who works [linkedin_i]
     us      [youtube-ic] [rss_icon-3]                 here:


                                              AppOne.com^TM   copyright?1999-2017 HR Services, Inc.
                                                          [hel]Click here for technical assistance.

DCSIMG
