Skip Navigation
[LOGO_DFSGLOW_03]

  Sign In to access application status,
  saved documents and Job Search Agents
  Job Details
  View Job Cart (0) Send This Job to a Friend 
  View My Account

  Discover. A more rewarding way to work.

  At Discover Financial Services, you'll find
  yourself in the company of some of the
  industry's smartest and most reliable
  professionals. And at a company that rewards
  dedication, values innovation and supports
  growth.

  Thrive in an environment that promotes teamwork
  and shared success. Build on a foundation of
  mutual respect. Join the company that
  understands rewarding careers like no other,
  with this exceptional opportunity:


  Senior Data Scientist

  Requisition Number P170523

  Job Type Full Time

  Post Date

  Location Riverwoods (IL)

  Functional Area Any

  Maximum Salary 0

  Minimum Salary 0

  Requisition Shift
  
  [Apply Now]                   [Add to Job Cart]
  Job Description
  Discover Financial Services is undertaking an
  enterprise-wide initiative to build a
  best-in-class Advanced Analytics team. The Data
  Scientist at Discover will be responsible for
  applying Machine Learning and Data Science to
  create Quantitative capabilities for various
  use-cases across Marketing, Collections, Risk
  and Fraud.


  RESPONSIBILITIES
  o Develop and implement quantitative solutions
  that leverage structured and unstructured data
  from internal and external sources.
  o Analyze and mine very large quantities of
  data to find patterns and insights using the
  open-source analytical stack like R, Python,
  Spark, etc.
  o Use Machine Learning and Statistical
  Algorithms to create data-driven solutions for
  various business use-cases.
  o Work with Technology teams to implement the
  quantitative solutions in a Hadoop/AWS/
  Cloud-based ecosystem.
  o Explore new tools and techniques available
  and ensure that Discover stays on the Frontier
  of Analytic Capabilities.


  Skills


  Candidate must have a strong Machine learning/
  Data Science background and experience in using
  the open-source analytical stack such as R/
  Python/Spark etc. The candidate must be fluent
  in coding in Python / R / Hive /Impala / Spark
  / SAS / SQL and analyzing large quantities of
  data in Hadoop or Cloud-based environment.

  o Master’s Degree in Economics/Computer Science
  /Industrial Engineering/Statistics or similar
  domain, with experience in developing
  supervised and unsupervised algorithms. Ph.D
  preferred.
  o Experience:  3-5 years of experience in Data
  Science, Modeling and Analytics roles that
  leverage new and advanced analytic tools in a
  Big Data Hadoop environment.
  o Expertise in advanced analytics, statistical
  techniques and machine learning using Python,
  PySpark, H2O, R, GraphX, Hive, Pandas, SQL,
  MLLib and related tools.
  o Thorough knowledge and experience in hybrid
  Sql/NoSql environments such as Hadoop, AWS,
  Apache Spark, GraphX, as well as relational/
  structured Teradata/Oracle environments.
  o Prior experience in Financial Services/
  Consumer Lending/ Credit Card industry a plus.


  Promote a risk-aware culture; ensure efficient
  and effective risk and compliance management
  practices by adhering to required standards and
  practices.

  #LI-RD1

  We are an Equal Opportunity Employer and do not
  discriminate against any employee or applicant
  for employment because of race, color, sex,
  age, national origin, religion, sexual
  orientation, gender identity, status as a
  veteran, and basis of disability or any other
  federal, state or local protected class.

  Move   Back to top
  Up
  View Job Cart (0) Send This Job to a Friend 
  View My Account
jobDetails
