Curriculum Associates We are winners! Take a look at our awards

  • Home
  • Get to Know Us
  • Perks and Benefits
  • Opportunities
  • I've Applied - What's Next?
  • Get Social with CA

Senior Data Scientist

Research North Billerica, Massachusetts

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Apply

Description

Senior Data Scientist 

We are seeking a Senior Data Scientist  to join our growing Custom Analytics
team. The Senior Data Scientist  will contribute to the development and
management of data analysis and analytic tools to support the learning needs of
millions of students nationwide. The Senior Data Scientist  will ensure the
Custom Analytics team has access to an effective data analysis infrastructure
to support its work. The Senior Data Scientist  will develop analytic tools
used by the team to consult with school districts nationwide on high-impact
educational decisions. This position will report to the AVP of Custom
Analytics.

The impact you’ll have:

  • Ensure the quality and integrity of our data; develop and maintain
    processes for data cleaning, data quality control, and data provisioning.
  • Act as the business owner of research data collections and collaborate with
    others across the company to improve those collections.
  • Partner with Curriculum Associates product development, technology, and
    research teams to develop new forms of reports and analyses for districts
    and schools.
  • Help us make a broader impact on educators by developing scalable,
    repeatable, and robust reporting processes.
  • Create important statistical analyses of educational data. Develop reports
    to explain and data visualizations to illustrate what the data mean to
    diverse audiences.
  • Support the effective decision making of educators nationwide by providing
    analyses that facilitate the use of Curriculum Associates’ assessment and
    instructional materials. Sample projects include:
  • Student performance and growth reporting
  • Analysis of the relative impact of different approaches to instruction
  • Provisioning and analysis of data for internal and external research
    partners

What we’re looking for:

  • Training and experience in statistical analysis and/or a degree in an
    analytic field or formal training in descriptive and inferential
    statistics.
  • At least five years working with large data sets is required for success in
    this position; as a candidate, you should have prior experience in managing
    and analyzing data at scale.
  • Help with maintaining our databases and prior experience with modeling,
    indexing, and structuring data optimized for analytic use.
  • Data for analysis is stored in relational database, you should have
    experience using and developing for relational databases such as MySQL,
    PostgreSQL, Oracle or SQL Server.
  • Solid knowledge of data warehouse tools and techniques; ability to document
    and communicate business rules and requirements to a development teams.
  • SAS and SQL will be the primary tools used in performing this work;
    experience with software development using these languages is required.
  • Write clear technical reports and communicate findings to a diverse
    audience (both technical and non-technical); being able to look beyond the
    analysis and data is important to making the work useful in practice for
    educators.
  • Understanding of ethical considerations in data use and relevant policies
    is highly desirable (e.g., FERPA).

Additional skills we are looking for:

  • An interest in innovative approaches to data analysis and visualization
  • Prior experience with educational data
  • An interest in improving the lives of educators and students
  • Experience with Apache Spark, Hadoop, or Presto a plus.

Apply Apply Later
← Back to Current Openings
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Share

LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Email
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Curriculum Associates, LLC is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Curriculum
Associates, LLC will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for
employment because of race, color, creed, religion, sex, national origin, age,
marital status, veteran status, sexual preference, disability, genetic
information, or any other category protected by law. Curriculum Associates, LLC
will grant employment, without regard to race, color, creed, religion, sex,
national origin, age, marital status, veteran status, sexual preference,
disability, genetic information, or any other category protected by law. Such
action shall include, but not be limited to, the following: employment,
upgrading, demotion, transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff
or termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.

Our company uses E-Verify to confirm the employment eligibility of all newly
hired employees. To learn more about E-Verify, including your rights and
responsibilities, please visit www.dhs.gov/E-Verify.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Powered by Jobvite

Back to Top
