Apply Now

Data Scientist

at Digital Reasoning (View all jobs)
Minneapolis, MN OR Nashville, TN

As a Data Scientist, you?ll support a major Healthcare Customer for technical
implementations, and analytical support for a wide range of NLP customer facing
efforts. The role will also involve servicing complex data retrieval requests,
diagnosis to investigate anomalies and creating reports/dashboards as needed.
The ideal candidate for this position will possess ability to do independent
research and generate insights from large data sets by asking the right
questions in addition to a hands-on-attitude of servicing/managing day-to-day
data requests and analysis.

Specific Responsibilities:

  * Understanding business requirements and defining the strategy to
    algorithmically meet those needs
  * Porting algorithms to distributed processing technologies such as Hadoop
    Map/Reduce to achieve web scale analysis on commodity hardware
  * Working with customer SMEs to understand the ?what? that they want to see
    and to develop a strategy on ?how? to get that from the data being used
  * Working with team leads, product and analytical teams to test hypotheses,
    and answer key questions

Required Qualifications:

  * Masters in Computer Science, Applied Math, Statistics, or a quantitative
    field with a strong background in natural language processing
  * 3+ professional experience with modeling and analysis, computational
    linguistics/NLP, semantic web technology, machine learning, and/or
    large-scale data mining
  * Ability to quickly come up to speed on and contribute to complex code based
    with minimal supervision
  * Excellent customer facing skills and an ability to work at a customer site
    collaborating with a team of consultants and customer SMEs
  * Working knowledge of SQL databases

Nice to have:

  * Working knowledge of Hadoop
  * Programming experience in Java
  * Experience with data visualization tools such as tableau
  * Programming experience in one or more dynamic languages such as R, Scala,
    Python, Ruby, etc.
  * PhD in Computer Science, Applied Math, Statistics
  * Researching and recommending machine learning algorithms and data sets for
    advancing the state-of-the-art techniques for ?entity resolution? (Named
    Entity Recognition, co-reference, anaphora, etc.)

Apply for this Job
* Required
First Name * [                    ]
Last Name * [                    ]
Email * [                    ]
Phone * [                    ]
Location (City) [                    ]
Resume/CV *
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
Cover Letter
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LinkedIn Profile
[                    ]
Website
[                    ]
How did you hear about this job?
[                    ]
Are you willing to submit to a background check and drug test during the hiring
process? *
[Please select]
If you are offered employment by Digital Reasoning, can you provide
documentation establishing your identity and right to work in the country where
this position will be based? *
[ ]  Yes
[ ]  No
[ ]  No, I need a work visa sponsorship.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S. Equal Opportunity Employment Information (Completion is voluntary)

Individuals seeking employment at Digital Reasoning are considered without
regards to race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, marital status,
ancestry, physical or mental disability, veteran status, gender identity, or
sexual orientation. You are being given the opportunity to provide the
following information in order to help us comply with federal and state Equal
Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action record keeping, reporting, and other
legal requirements.

Completion of the form is entirely voluntary. Whatever your decision, it will
not be considered in the hiring process or thereafter. Any information that you
do provide will be recorded and maintained in a confidential file.

Gender [Please select           ]
Are you Hispanic/Latino? [Please select           ]
Please identify your race [Please select                            ]
Race & Ethnicity Definitions

If you believe you belong to any of the categories of protected veterans listed
below, please indicate by making the appropriate selection. As a government
contractor subject to Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act
(VEVRAA), we request this information in order to measure the effectiveness of
the outreach and positive recruitment efforts we undertake pursuant to VEVRAA.
Classification of protected categories is as follows:

A "disabled veteran" is one of the following: a veteran of the U.S. military,
ground, naval or air service who is entitled to compensation (or who but for
the receipt of military retired pay would be entitled to compensation) under
laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; or a person who was
discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected
disability.

A "recently separated veteran" means any veteran during the three-year period
beginning on the date of such veteran's discharge or release from active duty
in the U.S. military, ground, naval, or air service.

An "active duty wartime or campaign badge veteran" means a veteran who served
on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service during a war,
or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized
under the laws administered by the Department of Defense.

An "Armed forces service medal veteran" means a veteran who, while serving on
active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service, participated in
a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces service medal was
awarded pursuant to Executive Order 12985.

Veteran Status 
[Please select                                                          ]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Form CC-305

OMB Control Number 1250-0005

Expires 1/31/2017

Voluntary Self-Identification of Disability

Why are you being asked to complete this form?

Because we do business with the government, we must reach out to, hire, and
provide equal opportunity to qualified people with disabilities^1. To help us
measure how well we are doing, we are asking you to tell us if you have a
disability or if you ever had a disability. Completing this form is voluntary,
but we hope that you will choose to fill it out. If you are applying for a job,
any answer you give will be kept private and will not be used against you in
any way.

If you already work for us, your answer will not be used against you in any
way. Because a person may become disabled at any time, we are required to ask
all of our employees to update their information every five years. You may
voluntarily self-identify as having a disability on this form without fear of
any punishment because you did not identify as having a disability earlier.

How do I know if I have a disability?

You are considered to have a disability if you have a physical or mental
impairment or medical condition that substantially limits a major life
activity, or if you have a history or record of such an impairment or medical
condition.

Disabilities include, but are not limited to:

  * Blindness
  * Deafness
  * Cancer
  * Diabetes
  * Epilepsy
  * Autism
  * Cerebral palsy
  * HIV/AIDS
  * Schizophrenia
  * Muscular dystrophy
  * Bipolar disorder
  * Major depression
  * Multiple sclerosis (MS)
  * Missing limbs or partially missing limbs
  * Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
  * Obsessive compulsive disorder
  * Impairments requiring the use of a wheelchair
  * Intellectual disability (previously called mental retardation)

Disability Status [Please select                                            ]
Reasonable Accommodation Notice

Federal law requires employers to provide reasonable accommodation to qualified
individuals with disabilities. Please tell us if you require a reasonable
accommodation to apply for a job or to perform your job. Examples of reasonable
accommodation include making a change to the application process or work
procedures, providing documents in an alternate format, using a sign language
interpreter, or using specialized equipment.

^1Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. For more
information about this form or the equal employment obligations of Federal
contractors, visit the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Federal Contract
Compliance Programs (OFCCP) website at www.dol.gov/ofccp.

PUBLIC BURDEN STATEMENT: According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 no
persons are required to respond to a collection of information unless such
collection displays a valid OMB control number. This survey should take about 5
minutes to complete.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Application consent for Digital Reasoning

By clicking the ?I Accept? button you expressly make the following
representations and warranties and give your consents as described below:

Digital Reasoning collects your personal data for the purposes of managing
Digital Reasoning?s recruitment related activities as well as for
organizational planning purposes globally. Consequently, Digital Reasoning may
use your personal data in relation to the evaluation and selection of
applicants including for example setting up and conducting interviews and
tests, evaluating and assessing the results thereto and as is otherwise needed
in the recruitment processes including the final recruitment.

Digital Reasoning does not disclose your personal data to unauthorized third
parties. However, as a global corporation consisting of multiple affiliated
companies in various countries, Digital Reasoning has international sites and
Digital Reasoning uses resources located throughout the world. Digital
Reasoning may from time to time also use third parties to act on Digital
Reasoning?s behalf. You agree to the fact that to the extent necessary your
personal data may be transferred and/or disclosed to any company within Digital
Reasoning group of companies as well as to third parties acting on Digital
Reasoning?s behalf, including also transfers to servers and databases outside
the country where you provided Digital Reasoning with your personal data. Such
transfers may include for example transfers and/or disclosures outside the
European Economic Area and in the United States of America.

[ ]  I Accept
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Submit Application]
Share this job:  
Powered by  Greenhouse Logo
Read our Privacy Policy
