visa logo
?
Visa Talent Scout

  * Jobs
  * Help
  * REWARDS

Settings

Data Analyst

New

? Palo Alto, California, United States

 
?
    Technology

? ? ? ?
    164951 Requisition #

? ? ? ?
    Dec 12, 2016 Post Date

Apply for Job
Share this Job
Sign Up for Job Alerts
TrialPay was acquired by Visa in 2015 for its unprecedented card-linked offer
technology that allows merchants to grow their businesses and build stronger
customer relationships. Joining our team means you?ll get the best of both
worlds: the culture of a fast-paced startup with the security and scale of a
Fortune 500 brand. Now, as a part of Visa?s Loyalty & Offers team, TrialPay is
devoted to building forward-thinking products to give our merchants a leg up.
Here?s what we?ve been working on:
 

  * Launched Uber Local Offers in August 2016, a new way for riders to earn
    discounted rides by simple using the same Visa card on file with Uber at
    their favorite local merchants.
  * Leveraging Visa data to power our technology and ensure that we?re serving
    the most relevant, personalize offers to consumers
  * Driving value to high profile brands including Outback Steakhouse, Peet's
    Coffee, Regal, and Whole Foods
  * Building out the best-in-class APIs that accelerate the delivery of
    merchant solutions to fuel business growth and strengthen customer
    relationships

 

Job Description

We?re looking for an experienced Data Analyst to spearhead advanced analytics
and reporting for TrialPay. Given a set of project requirements, you should be
able to implement data mining and visualization techniques, as well as provide
statistical analysis and post-campaign analysis for targeted marketing
campaigns. You?ll also be responsible for data integration among diverse data
resources. In general, you are able to provide sound methods and identify key
results to support strategic decisions. Ideally, you have fantastic
communication and presentation skills, and you can work effectively and
efficiently with everyone from fellow data scientists to business partners.

 

Responsibilities

  * Develop and implement business-application-based datamarts, data collection
    systems, data analytics, data sanitizing and other strategies that optimize
    statistical efficiency and quality for business processes
  * Implement marketing campaign analysis including pre-campaign audience
    targeting, in-campaign performance monitoring, and post-campaign analysis 
  * Acquire and integrate data from multiple data sources
  * Identify, analyze and interpret trends and patterns for large complex
    datasets using statistical techniques
  * Work with management to prioritize business and information needs
  * Explore and define new process improvement opportunities
  * Present ongoing reports and findings to management and business partners

  * BS or MS in Statistics, Mathematics, Computer Science, Economics,
    Engineering, or other related field
  * 3+ years of working experience as a data analyst (marketing analytics
    preferred)
  * Strong analytical skills with ability to collect, organize, analyze
    significant amounts of information and massive datasets (expertise in SQL,
    Hive)
  * Experienced in data visualization using Tableau and Excel
  * Familiar with scripting languages such as R, Python and/or PHP
  * Technical expertise in data mining: statistical distribution, missing/
    outliers data statistics, segmentation, regression, A/B testing, hypothesis
    testing, etc.
  * Excellent communication and presentation skills: adept at queries and
    comfortable creating reports and presenting findings to management and
    business partners using Excel and Powerpoint

Job Perks

  * Competitive salary, comprehensive medical benefits, and 401(k) matching
  * Free meals, snacks, beverages, and on-site fitness classes
  * Friendly and collaborative open office environment
  * Visa stock purchasing plan
  * Ping-pong, hackathons, rooftop happy hours, and team-building offsites
  * Offices in downtown San Francisco (close to BART) and Palo Alto (close to
    Caltrain)
  * To learn more about us, visit us at: http://www.trialpay.com/about/company/

About Visa:

 

Common Purpose, Uncommon Opportunity.  Everyone at Visa works with one goal in
mind ? making sure that Visa is the best way to pay and be paid, for everyone
everywhere. This is our global vision and the common purpose that unites the
entire Visa team.  As a global payments technology company, tech is at the
heart of what we do.  CyberSource, a Visa company, has been and continues to be
a pioneer within the e-Commerce Payment Management world. Our VisaNet network
is capable of handling over 65,000 transaction messages per second for people
and businesses around the world, enabling them to use digital currency instead
of cash and checks.

 

We are also global advocates for financial inclusion, working with partners
around the world to help those who lack access to financial services join the
global economy. Visa?s sponsorships, including the Olympics and FIFA? World
Cup, celebrate teamwork, diversity, and excellence throughout the world. If you
have a passion to make a difference in the lives of people around the world,
Visa offers an uncommon opportunity to build a strong, thriving career. Visa is
fueled by our team of talented employees who continuously raise the bar on
delivering the convenience and security of digital currency to people all over
the world. Join our team and find out how Visa is everywhere you want to be.

 

?Visa will consider for employment qualified applicants with criminal histories
in a manner consistent with the requirements of Article 49 of the San Francisco
Police Code." 

[                    ]
My Profile

Create and manage profiles for future opportunities.

Go to Profile

My Submissions

Track your opportunities.

My Submissions

Similar Listings

Senior UI/UX Front End Engineer

? Palo Alto, California, United States

? Technology

Requisition #: 163863

Technical Writer

? Palo Alto, California, United States

? Technology

Requisition #: 164568

Senior Full Stack Software Engineer

? Palo Alto, California, United States

? Technology

Requisition #: 164564

View More Listings

  * Jobs
  * Help
  * Sitemap
  * REWARDS

? Visa Talent Scout. All rights reserved.
1 1
