Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist / Quantitative Researcher

Data Scientist / Quantitative Researcher

Position ID 
    2016-1315

Job Locations 
    US-NY-New York

Category 
    Trading

Type 
    Regular Full-Time

Targeted Job Start Date 
    Immediate

More information about this job:

We are looking for a Data Scientist / Quantitative Researcher to join a small,
collaborative team of experienced Developers and Data Scientists.  The team
uses a systematic and scientific process to develop quantitative trading
strategies for futures markets and utilize state-of-the-art machine learning
techniques to extract information from a wide variety of datasets.  

 

The successful candidate would be expected to engage in original research
projects focused on applying machine learning methodologies to enhance our
existing systems and to develop new trading strategies.

 

Responsibilities:

  * Developing trading strategies using statistical and machine learning
    approaches
  * Advancing existing initiatives and introducing new research directions
  * Applying quantitative techniques to novel or unconventional datasets
  * Building and refining research infrastructure and tools

Requirements:

  * Advanced degree (Master?s or PhD) in a quantitative discipline; Exceptional
    candidates with a Bachelor?s degree will also be considered
  * Solid mathematical and analytical ability; exceptional problem-solving and
    modeling ability
  * Expertise in statistics and machine learning
  * Documented experience with practical predictive modeling using real-world
    datasets (e.g. publications, Kaggle competitions, data science portfolio,
    etc.)
  * Intermediate programming skills in Python, R or Java
  * Ability to communicate complex ideas clearly
  * Self-motivated and able to work collaboratively and productively with
    others. Strong sense of accountability and desire to continuously learn
  * Finance knowledge is not required but a curiosity about financial markets
    is expected

DRW is a principal trading firm, which means no outside investors or third
party funds, and we trade for our own account in markets around the world. Our
trading is diverse?across asset classes and instruments, using our own models
and systems?and it?s this diversification that sets us apart.  Founded in 1992
by bringing together technology, research, and risk management to capture
trading and investment opportunities, and we still take that approach today.
Though we?ve grown to more than 700 exceptional people in six cities around the
world, we have the spirit of a start-up and a constant focus on results.

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
Share this job with a friend
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

