🌎
[English                 ]
 This job posting isn't available in all website languages
Sign up
Sign in
☰
Taleo Social Sourcing

  • Jobs
  • Help

Data Scientist - Clinical Quality

🔍 Florida, Orlando

 
📁
    Other Non-Clinical Professional

💼
    Adventist Health System Corporate Office

📅   
    Sep 01, 2016 Post Date

Apply for Job
Recommend to a Friend
Sign Up for Job Alerts

If you want to be a part of a place that provides nothing less than
extraordinary compassionate care, then Adventist Health System is the place for
you!

We are currently seeking qualified candidates for a Clinical Quality Data
Scientist position that will be based in our Population Health Services
Organization department. This position is based in Orlando, FL.

This position has the opportunity to be responsible supporting the Population
Health Service Organization (PHSO) for the Florida Division of Adventist Health
System. The Clinical Quality Data Scientist is responsible for engaging with
the internal clinical team, the PHSO, and Clinical Integrity Network (CIN)
stakeholders in reviewing key program data pertaining, but not limited to,
health outcomes, program clinical performance, and key service delivery data,
to guide program delivery, collaborate on product needs and support report
creation and development. The Clinical Quality Data Scientist will produce
analytics, dashboards, and data sets across a variety of subject matters
primarily related to, but not limited to, clinical quality and efficiency,
medical and financial management, network management, lines of business, and
leadership strategy inquiries. Works and communicates under general direction
of the Analytics Director and management team. Actively participates in
outstanding customer service and accepts responsibility in maintaining
relationships that are equally respectful to all.

Specific job duties include:

  • Compiles, analyzes and reports on key program data to support clients’
    goals, provides guidance in wellness or population health management and
    offers assistance in program development. Assists clients, clinics, and
    physician practices with the development of communication regarding areas
    of concern on analytical reports, or other functional support areas.
  • Provides in-depth analysis of cost, quality, satisfaction, and utilization
    data including organization, preparation, evaluation, modeling, review,
    presentation, and follow-up of projects
  • Adheres to quality standards and procedures based on National standards.
    Reviews quality assurance documentation and checks compliance. Reviews
    current literature and attends training sessions or seminars to keep
    informed of new developments in the field.
  • Identifies and proposes opportunities for process improvement and prepares
    written documentation; responsible for attending various types of meetings
    at different campuses as required.
  • Supports the leadership team to manage employee and employer programs,
    audits progress towards goals, and creates client solutions. Assists in
    developing insightful communications to share with clients and internal/
    external stakeholders.
  • Builds strong relationships with leadership, customers, and peers.
    Communicates appropriately and effectively with stakeholders, customers and
    supervisors, maintaining awareness of any issues, potential delays, and any
    situation of concern that may affect the productivity of supported
    programs, processes and systems. Solicits and incorporates input from
    peers, customers, and management for process improvements. Applies
    knowledge of new trends in healthcare which may involve data management and
    analytics.
  • Effectively uses past experiences and job knowledge to identify and resolve
    any data or program implementation problems within area of responsibility.
  • Measures program delivery (utilization, waste prevention, cost of care,
    etc.) and member engagement (compliance with prescribed care/medication,
    preventive steps taken, etc.) with the health plan/clinically integrated
    network. Measures outcomes (infection rates, readmissions, mortality, etc.)
    in several levels of support (provider, service line, population segments,
    etc.)
  • Involved in problem-solving issues related to program delivery, program
    engagement and health-related outcomes.
  • Proficiently and consistently applies data analysis and application
    functions principles. Utilizes knowledge and understanding of analytical
    tools and population health-related applications.
  • Trains customers and staff and assists other Analytics areas. Completes
    documentation for all phases of program implementation and analytics
    development cycle. Effectively prepares and presents documentation.
  • Performs other duties as assigned or directed to ensure smooth and
    efficient operations of the Analytics department. Automatically looks for
    extra work as workload permits.


Education Requirements:

  • Master’s degree in Science, Mathematics, Finance, Accounting, Statistics,
    Health Care or related field or related field and six years analytic
    experience, required.


Experience Requirements:

  • A minimum of three years of experience in a health care, analytics, or
    quality role, required.
  • A minimum of three years of experience in healthcare finance/accounting or
    related field with specific emphasis on accounting practice, cost
    accounting, statistical analysis, budgeting, management decision making,
    reporting, and financial modeling, required.
  • Experience with statistical applications like SAS, SPSS, required.
  • Technical experience in utilizing analytical software tools, and
    applications, required.


If this position sounds like a great match for your skills set and experience,
please apply online now!
[                    ]
Top Referrers

109562
[no_profile]

Joy Weekes

41145
[0_4dB69TIb]

Douglas Mvududu

Human Resources

Florida, Orlando

52297
[0_0SLTYh1N]

James Johnson

Human Resources

Florida, Orlando

Activity Feed

22879
Job shares through Adventist Health System
[no_a]
Someone applied to the Interface Analyst Intermediate position. 2 minutes ago
[no_a]
Someone applied to the Part-time Sonographer @ Florida Heart Group - Ultrasound
cc5614 position. 2 minutes ago
[no_a]
Someone applied to the Corporate Care Lenexa LICENSED PRACTICAL NURSE position.
2 minutes ago
[no_a]
Someone applied to the Director of Training - Organizational Readiness
position. 2 minutes ago
[no_a]
Someone applied to the File Clerk @ Center for Urologic Cancer cc7080 position.
6 minutes ago

Similar Listings

Medical RECEPTIONIST @ Florida Heart Group cc 5650

Florida Hospital Medical Group

 Florida, Orlando

📁 Other Non-Clinical Professional

Post Date: Nov 04, 2016

Medical Receptionist @ The Center for Child Development cc3390

Florida Hospital Medical Group

 Florida, Orlando

📁 Other Non-Clinical Professional

Post Date: Nov 14, 2016

Organ Procurement Coordinator - Trans life Procurement - Orlando - Part Time

Florida Hospital

 Florida, Orlando

📁 Other Non-Clinical Professional

Post Date: Nov 15, 2016

View More Listings

  • Jobs
  • Help
  • Sitemap

© Taleo Social Sourcing. All rights reserved.
Taleo Social Sourcing
1 0
