Excellus Bluecross BlueShield logo

      Browse Open Jobs | Search Open Jobs | Edit Your Profile | View Submitted
                                    Applications
[s]                                                                               [s]

    Job Details


    
    
    Requisition Number    16-1400
    Post Date             12/8/2016
    Title                 Associate Data Scientist
    Job Type              Full Time
    City                  Rochester
    State                 NY
    Description           The Data Scientist Associate is responsible for
                          addressing divisional needs outside of the scope of
                          existing organization, or to fill Analytics and Data
                          Division needs for short period projects not
                          supported elsewhere. In addition, this role also
                          integrates and prepares large, varied datasets and
                          designs and builds specialized databases and
                          computing environments (data architecture). The
                          incumbent communicates and presents results of
                          research in a structured and clear way that can be
                          easily understood by various business stakeholders
                          and clients. Ultimately, the Associate Data
                          Scientist works with various stakeholders across the
                          Corporation to turn data into meaningful insights
                          that is then used to make sound business decisions.

                          Note:
                          This is an entry level position with an expectation
                          that the associate will grow their knowledge of both
                          the Health Plan organization as well as the breadth
                          and depth of the technology skills needed within the
                          Analytics and Data Division.

                          Essential Responsibilities/Accountabilities
                          ? Works under general supervision to design
                          experiments, test hypotheses, model moderately
                          complex business problems, discover business
                          insights and identify opportunities through the use
                          of statistical, algorithmic, mining and
                          visualization techniques.
                          ? Identifies business requirements and anticipated
                          outcomes by working with company stakeholders.
                          ? Works with business analysts to suggest other
                          possible products of interest to the client.
                          ? Models and frames business scenarios that are
                          meaningful and have impact on critical business
                          processes and/or decisions.
                          ? Selects pertinent and relevant sources of
                          information in collaboration with company subject
                          matter experts (SMEs).
                          ? Assists in solving client/stakeholder analytics
                          problems and documents results and methodologies.
                          ? Works in iterative processes within IT and
                          validates findings.
                          ? Validates findings and tests hypotheses through
                          performance of experimental design approaches.
                          ? Discovers patterns through the employment of
                          appropriate algorithms.
                          ? Validates analysis by comparing appropriate
                          samples.
                          ? Uses the expected assurance and qualification of
                          information to quantify the accuracy metrics of
                          analysis.
                          ? Authorizes and qualifies where information can be
                          stored and what information, external to the
                          organization, may be used in support of various
                          projects and initiatives.
                          ? Assesses the volume of data supporting projects
                          and initiatives, the type of data (i.e. text,
                          images, clickstream or metering data) and the speed
                          or sudden variations in data collection.
                          ? Collaborates with the IT Division and other
                          discipline areas in the Analytics and Data Division
                          to ensure that information used follows the
                          compliance, access/security management, and control
                          policies and that it meets the qualification and
                          assurance requirements of the Corporation.
                          ? Recommends ongoing improvements to methods and
                          algorithms that lead to findings, including new
                          information.
                          ? Presents and illustrates the rationale of findings
                          in easy to understand terms for the business.
                          ? Presents results that contradict common belief, if
                          needed.
                          ? Communicates, collaborates and works with business
                          subject matter experts (SMEs).
                          ? Provides relevant business metrics for projects to
                          substantiate and demonstrate improvements (project
                          outcomes should be monitored over time, through
                          project completion and beyond).
                          ? Monitors and tracks the performance of decision
                          systems and statistical models on an on-going basis.
                          ? Consistently demonstrates high standards of
                          integrity by supporting the Lifetime Healthcare
                          Companies? mission and values and adhering to the
                          Corporate Code of Conduct.
                          ? Maintains high regard for member privacy in
                          accordance with the corporate privacy policies and
                          procedures.
                          ? Regular and reliable attendance is expected and
                          required.
                          ? Performs other functions as assigned by
                          management.
    Requirements          ? Associate?s Degree in Mathematics, Statistics,
                          Information Systems, Computer Science, Economics or
                          related field and 1 year of related experience (i.e.
                          business intelligence, predictive analytics, data
                          modeling and mining, statistics, etc.,). Bachelor?s
                          Degree preferred.
                          ? Demonstrate the following scientific qualities in
                          work: significance, breadth, depth, clarity,
                          accuracy, precision, relevance, logic and fairness.
                          ? Demonstrable ability to quickly understand new
                          concepts and to come up with original solutions to
                          various mathematical issues.
                          ? Has a general understanding of the following
                          skills and technologies; modeling complex business
                          problems, discovering new business insights and
                          finding opportunities through the use of
                          algorithmic, statistical, data-mining and
                          visualization techniques.
                          ? Strong communication and interpersonal skills.
                          ? Familiarity using databases and manipulating large
                          datasets.
                          ? Familiarity with a general-purpose programming
                          language (Big data frameworks such as Hadoop
                          MapReduce, Java, others).
                          ? Familiarity in the use of statistical packages
                          (such as R or SAS).
                          ? Familiarity with basic principles of distributed
                          computing and databases.
                          ? Shows and embraces a willingness to grow his/her
                          technical skills to meet the needs of the Analytics
                          and Data Division as well as learning the Health
                          Plan organization to be effective with daily job
                          activities.


                          Physical Requirements
                          ? Ability to travel across regions.

                          In support of the Americans with Disabilities Act,
                          this job description lists only those
                          responsibilities and qualifications deemed essential
                          to the position.

                          Equal Opportunity Employer
      * We are an Equal Opportunity Employer.
      * Please view Equal Employment Opportunity Posters provided by OFCCP
        here.
      * We are an Equal Opportunity Employer, and as such affirm the right of
        every person to participate in all aspects of employment without
        regard to race, color, sex/gender, age, disability, religion, creed,
        citizenship status, national origin, veteran status, military status,
        marital status, familial status, domestic violence victim status,
        sexual orientation, gender identity, predisposing genetic
        characteristic, genetic information, or any other status protected
        under the law.
      * The contractor will not discharge or in any other manner discriminate
        against employees or applicants because they have inquired about,
        discussed, or disclosed their own pay or the pay of another employee
        or applicant. However, employees who have access to the compensation
        information of other employees or applicants as a part of their
        essential job functions cannot disclose the pay of other employees or
        applicants to individuals who do not otherwise have access to
        compensation information, unless the disclosure is (a) in response to
        a formal complaint or charge, (b) in furtherance of an investigation,
        proceeding, hearing, or action, including an investigation conducted
        by the employer, or (c) consistent with the contractor?s legal duty to
        furnish information.

                          Apply On-line
                          Send This Job to a Friend


[Footer_All]

