

Date Posted:           05/Jan/17

Requisition:           2069919

Job Title:             Services Data Scientist

Description:           Agilent inspires and supports discoveries that advance
                       the quality of life. We provide life science, diagnostic
                       and applied market laboratories worldwide with
                       instruments, services, consumables, applications and
                       expertise. Agilent enables customers to gain the answers
                       and insights they seek –– so they can do what they do
                       best: improve the world around us. Information about
                       Agilent is available at www.agilent.com.

                       The business data analyst will be responsible for the
                       data mining and data analysis used by Service Operations
                       to increase efficiency and customer satisfaction. You
                       should have experience operating in enterprise software
                       suites (SAP or Oracle) to find and extract data as well
                       as be strong with data visualization tools to uncover
                       trends and anomalies. You should be very experienced in
                       data visualization platforms and proficient in analyzing
                       large amounts of data. The role will require data to be
                       extracted and analyzed from multiple sources to discover
                       solutions to business problems.

                       The role involves working with the Service and Support
                       Division, as well as the Service Fields teams to find
                       trends and anomalies in service delivery data, customer
                       behavior, demand forecasts, and parts consumption. You
                       will leverage your expertise across a trifecta of
                       mathematics, technology, and business acumen to
                       translate operational problems into analysis, and
                       visualized business insights. You should be able to sort
                       through large amounts of data to uncover the type of
                       information needed for business decisions. You should
                       also be able to communicate a solution in very clear
                       terms.

                       The primary responsibility for this position is to
                       develop data models to help Agilent better understand
                       its customers, and their needs, to optimize the Service
                       Operation. You will work closely with division leaders,
                       software engineers, and our field employees around the
                       world.

                       Responsibilities:
                       • Translate Operations problem statements into data
                       analysis projects
                       • Provide operational dashboards that help service
                       managers more effectively manage their business
                       • Propose new data models and visualization tools to
                       more effectively spot trends and anomalies in large
                       amounts of data
                       • Develop data models and machine learning algorithms
                       for Agilent’s service business engagement model
                       • Effectively communicate the health of the business
                       through data visualization tools
                       • Lead data analysis projects to satisfy the needs of
                       product marketing
                       • Provide management updates and status reports of
                       business trends and anomalies

Qualifications:        • Must be able to work out of our Wilmington DE location
                       • Bachelor or Masters degree in Business, Engineering,
                       Computer Science, Finance, Mathematics, or Statistics
                       • Experience with data visualization software. (SAP
                       Lumera, Qlik, Spotfire)
                       • Experience with R, Hadoop, Python, SQL, SAP Hana
                       (In-Memory Computing)
                       • Experience working in an analytical, strategic, data
                       scientist role
                       • Experience in statistical analysis, predictive
                       analytics/modeling, time series analysis, and machine
                       learning
                       • Demonstrated ability to translate strategy business
                       problems into analytical models and recommendation/
                       decision engines
                       • Demonstrated translate business process, and coalesce
                       user stories into simulation models to optimize
                       performance and business results
                       • Strong creative problem solving abilities
                       • Strong data visualization skills
                       • Excellent verbal & written communication skills
                       • Experience working with international teams
                       • Ability to travel 10%

                       Agilent Technologies, Inc. is an Equal Employment
                       Opportunity and Affirmative Action employer. We value
                       diversity at all levels. All individuals, regardless of
                       personal characteristics, are encouraged to apply. All
                       qualified applicants will receive consideration for
                       employment without regard to sex, pregnancy, race,
                       religion or religious creed, color, gender, gender
                       identity, gender expression, national origin, ancestry,
                       physical or mental disability, medical condition,
                       genetic information, marital status, registered domestic
                       partner status, age, sexual orientation, military or
                       veteran status, protected veteran status, or any other
                       basis protected by federal, state, local law, ordinance,
                       or regulation and will not be discriminated against on
                       these bases.

                       For more information about equal employment opportunity
                       protections, please view the ‘EEO is the Law’ poster
                       available here:
                       https://www.dol.gov/ofccp/regs/compliance/posters/pdf/
                       eeopost.pdf,

                       https://www.dol.gov/ofccp/regs/compliance/posters/pdf/
                       OFCCP_EEO_Supplement_Final_JRF_QA_508c.pdf

                       Agilent Technologies, Inc., is committed to diversity in
                       the workplace and strives to support candidates with
                       disabilities. If you have a disability and need
                       assistance with any part of the application or interview
                       process or have questions about workplace accessibility,
                       please contact +1-262-754-5030 (US and Canada only) or
                       email job_posting@agilent.com. EOE AA M/F/Vet/Disability


Company:               Agilent

Business:              Agilent CrossLab Group

Job Category:          Support / Service

Job Sub-Category:      Program/Project Management

Region:                Americas

Country or Area:       United States

State/Province:        Delaware

Town/City:             Wilmington

Shift:                 Day Job

Job Type:              Graduates

Schedule:              Part-time

Travel Required:       Yes, 10% of the Time

Duration               Not applicable
(Temp Positions Only):


  Share               Apply

[In_linkedi]Apply with LinkedIn[informatio]
[applicatio]Apply[informatio]



***Agilent is an Equal Opportunity Employer.***

