Apply Now

Data Scientist

at ESNS (View all jobs)
Norther Virginia/DC Metro Area/Maryland

Engineering, Software and Network Services (ESNS) is an innovative Engineering
and IT Services firm based in Alexandria, VA. We are looking for a Data
Scientist to join our team!

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

 **Candidate must have an active Top Secret SCI with Lifestyle (Full Scope)
Polygraph in order to be considered for the position.**

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Position Description:

We are looking for a data scientist that has experience in bulk data mining.
The candidate will help develop novel analytical approaches for parsing bulk
data sets, develop data mining algorithms and models for finding hidden
patterns, unknown correlations, trends and other relationships within the data.
The ideal candidate codes every day and enjoys solving big data challenges with
mission impact.

Position required skills include but are not limited to:

 1. Sixteen plus (16+) years of on-the-job experience in writing bulk data
    programming scripts.
 2. Nine plus (9+) years of on-the-job experience using at-least three of the
    following technologies: HPCC, Pentaho, Netezza, or Hadoop.
 3. Nine plus (9+) years of on-the-job experience of putting together technical
    analytical reports that are intended for non-technical customers.
 4. Nine plus (9+) years of on-the-job experience as a data engineer.
 5. On-the-job experience exploiting packet capture (PCAP) and bulk Internet
    data.
 6. Nine plus (9+) years of on-the-job experience with Enterprise Control
    Language (ECL).
 7. Five plus (5+) years of on-the-job experience building data models in
    Enterprise Control Language (ECL).

Desired Skills:

Twelve plus (12+) years of on-the-job experience, a Bachelor of Science degree
in a technical discipline, a minimum of 15 years of on-the-job experience in
big data analysis, and on-the-job experience writing up analytic findings/
reports in a day or less.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

 **Your resume will not be considered if you do not have an active TOP SECRET/
SCI LlFESTYLE (FULLSCOPE) POLYGRAPH**

 

Apply for this Job
* Required
First Name * [                    ]
Last Name * [                    ]
Email * [                    ]
Phone * [                    ]
Resume/CV *
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
Cover Letter
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Do you currently hold an active Top Secret/SCI Full Scope/Lifestyle Poly
Clearance? *
[-- ]
LinkedIn Profile
[                    ]
How did you hear about this job?
[                    ]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
U.S. Equal Opportunity Employment Information (Completion is voluntary)

Individuals seeking employment at ESNS are considered without regards to race,
color, religion, national origin, age, sex, marital status, ancestry, physical
or mental disability, veteran status, gender identity, or sexual orientation.
You are being given the opportunity to provide the following information in
order to help us comply with federal and state Equal Employment Opportunity/
Affirmative Action record keeping, reporting, and other legal requirements.

Completion of the form is entirely voluntary. Whatever your decision, it will
not be considered in the hiring process or thereafter. Any information that you
do provide will be recorded and maintained in a confidential file.

Gender [Please select           ]
Are you Hispanic/Latino? [Please select           ]
Please identify your race [Please select                            ]
Race & Ethnicity Definitions

If you believe you belong to any of the categories of protected veterans listed
below, please indicate by making the appropriate selection. As a government
contractor subject to Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act
(VEVRAA), we request this information in order to measure the effectiveness of
the outreach and positive recruitment efforts we undertake pursuant to VEVRAA.
Classification of protected categories is as follows:

A "disabled veteran" is one of the following: a veteran of the U.S. military,
ground, naval or air service who is entitled to compensation (or who but for
the receipt of military retired pay would be entitled to compensation) under
laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; or a person who was
discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected
disability.

A "recently separated veteran" means any veteran during the three-year period
beginning on the date of such veteran's discharge or release from active duty
in the U.S. military, ground, naval, or air service.

An "active duty wartime or campaign badge veteran" means a veteran who served
on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service during a war,
or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized
under the laws administered by the Department of Defense.

An "Armed forces service medal veteran" means a veteran who, while serving on
active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service, participated in
a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces service medal was
awarded pursuant to Executive Order 12985.

Veteran Status 
[Please select                                                          ]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Form CC-305

OMB Control Number 1250-0005

Expires 1/31/2017

Voluntary Self-Identification of Disability

Why are you being asked to complete this form?

Because we do business with the government, we must reach out to, hire, and
provide equal opportunity to qualified people with disabilities^1. To help us
measure how well we are doing, we are asking you to tell us if you have a
disability or if you ever had a disability. Completing this form is voluntary,
but we hope that you will choose to fill it out. If you are applying for a job,
any answer you give will be kept private and will not be used against you in
any way.

If you already work for us, your answer will not be used against you in any
way. Because a person may become disabled at any time, we are required to ask
all of our employees to update their information every five years. You may
voluntarily self-identify as having a disability on this form without fear of
any punishment because you did not identify as having a disability earlier.

How do I know if I have a disability?

You are considered to have a disability if you have a physical or mental
impairment or medical condition that substantially limits a major life
activity, or if you have a history or record of such an impairment or medical
condition.

Disabilities include, but are not limited to:

  • Blindness
  • Deafness
  • Cancer
  • Diabetes
  • Epilepsy
  • Autism
  • Cerebral palsy
  • HIV/AIDS
  • Schizophrenia
  • Muscular dystrophy
  • Bipolar disorder
  • Major depression
  • Multiple sclerosis (MS)
  • Missing limbs or partially missing limbs
  • Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
  • Obsessive compulsive disorder
  • Impairments requiring the use of a wheelchair
  • Intellectual disability (previously called mental retardation)

Disability Status [Please select                                            ]
Reasonable Accommodation Notice

Federal law requires employers to provide reasonable accommodation to qualified
individuals with disabilities. Please tell us if you require a reasonable
accommodation to apply for a job or to perform your job. Examples of reasonable
accommodation include making a change to the application process or work
procedures, providing documents in an alternate format, using a sign language
interpreter, or using specialized equipment.

^1Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. For more
information about this form or the equal employment obligations of Federal
contractors, visit the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Federal Contract
Compliance Programs (OFCCP) website at www.dol.gov/ofccp.

PUBLIC BURDEN STATEMENT: According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 no
persons are required to respond to a collection of information unless such
collection displays a valid OMB control number. This survey should take about 5
minutes to complete.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Application consent for ESNS

By clicking the “I Accept” button you expressly make the following
representations and warranties and give your consents as described below:

ESNS collects your personal data for the purposes of managing ESNS’s
recruitment related activities as well as for organizational planning purposes
globally. Consequently, ESNS may use your personal data in relation to the
evaluation and selection of applicants including for example setting up and
conducting interviews and tests, evaluating and assessing the results thereto
and as is otherwise needed in the recruitment processes including the final
recruitment.

ESNS does not disclose your personal data to unauthorized third parties.
However, as a global corporation consisting of multiple affiliated companies in
various countries, ESNS has international sites and ESNS uses resources located
throughout the world. ESNS may from time to time also use third parties to act
on ESNS’s behalf. You agree to the fact that to the extent necessary your
personal data may be transferred and/or disclosed to any company within ESNS
group of companies as well as to third parties acting on ESNS’s behalf,
including also transfers to servers and databases outside the country where you
provided ESNS with your personal data. Such transfers may include for example
transfers and/or disclosures outside the European Economic Area and in the
United States of America.

[ ]  I Accept
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
[Submit Application]
Share this job:  
Powered by  Greenhouse Logo
Read our Privacy Policy
