Zappos

  * Why Us
      + Our Core Values
      + Company Perks
      + Tour Our Campus
      + How We Work
      + Downtown Las Vegas
  * Our Teams
      + Technology
      + Merchandising
      + Creative Services
      + Marketing
      + Customer Loyalty
      + Finance, Accounting & Supply Chain
      + HR, Legal & Education
      + Internships
  * Job Search
  * Q&A
  * Login

Live to deliver wow

Join the Zappos Family

[                    ]
view all jobs
Become a Zappos Insider Playget started

Statistical Retail Business Analyst / Data Analyst

Finance, Accounting & Supply Chain Las Vegas, Nevada

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Apply

Zapponian [noun|employee of Zappos]. You are self-motivated. You think like an
entrepreneur, constantly innovating and driving positive change, but more
importantly, you consistently deliver mind-boggling results.

Bold [adjective|not afraid of anything]. A role at Zappos is an opportunity to
be a part of something different. To go bold. We?re a company that isn?t afraid
to take risks and question the status quo. Oh yeah, we like to have fun too.

Perks [noun|the good stuff you get for working hard]. Zappos pays 100% of your
medical, dental and vision premiums. Primary care visits, dental exams, eye
exams and generic prescriptions are all free. Plus matching 401k, life coaches,
orthodontic benefits, and more. And don?t forget, an unlimited 40% Zappos.com
discount.

1990s [noun|a decade we love, but no longer live in]. Old school cover letters
are so 1990. Want to show us who you really are? Create a video cover letter. A
flash mob, a comedic monologue? whatever showcases your passion for Zappos and
the work you?d be doing! Videos are not required, but if you create it, we?ll
watch it.

Scout [noun|you're a recruiter, too]. As a Zapponian, we?ll ask that you always
keep your eye out for great talent to join our family. Consider yourself an
extension of the recruiting team, scouting for the best people to grow our
company.

Statistical Retail Business Analyst /Data Analyst

A year ago, Zappos took a bold step ? we went back to being a premium retailer
who foremost competes on service and selection rather than on price. From a
merchandising perspective this means we have to take our processes around
assortment planning, forecasting, in-season merchandising, marketing and
liquidation management to a new level. We need you to help us with this!

What you'll be doing: 
As the Statistical Retail Business Analyst, you will develop and implement data
driven decision making models that enhance the business?s ability to achieve
strategic objectives. Based on a thorough understanding of the business context
you will identify opportunities for applying enhanced business intelligence and
think about processes and practices that have to be developed for successful
implementation. 

The ideal candidate has a proven track record of applying quantitative models
to significantly change the outcomes of business processes for the better.  You
never run out of questions, yet value progress over perfection. You are known
to challenge the status quo by astutely identifying the strengths and
weaknesses of a given process in context of the business strategy.  You have
great communication skills, as exemplified by the ability to explain in a
concise fashion the context and rationale for process change, while being
sensitive to how communication shapes perception. You?ve excelled at
statistical analysis, math and logical problem solving. At heart, you are a
business professional equipped with a deep toolbox of quantitative techniques
to drive change at the enterprise level, not a passionate statistician with a
cursory interest in business.

What you'll bring to the table:

  * Design data-driven algorithms and heuristics to improve decision making
    with respect to Zappos? strategic business goal through use of techniques
    like machine learning, pattern recognition, statistical analysis,
    quantitative optimization, and mathematical programming
  * Build and refine statistical forecasts and models of critical business
    phenomena, such as external demand, product sales, price elasticity, return
    patterns and other customer behaviors
  * Develop solution details, such as end state descriptions, use cases,
    process maps, specific data requirements, data sourcing plans etc. to embed
    decision making models into comprehensive business solutions
  * Advocate for solutions and initiatives with organizational leaders
  * Work with our Solution Adoption and Support Champions to create and
    maintain documentation to provide a comprehensive understanding of the
    solution
  * Create and gather data and analysis to measure the adoption of deployed
    solutions

Skills you'll have 

  * 
    BS or MS in Computer Science in Statistics or related quantitative field
    (mathematics, hard sciences, machine learning, computer science, operations
    research, engineering). Advanced degree preferred.
  * MUST HAVE 3-5 years of relevant experience in a related function field
    (merchandising, planning, inventory management) in addition to education
    and not exclusive to education only.
  * Exposure to, or previous experience in, orchestrating a major change in
    business strategy or process.
  * Demonstrated experience with statistical forecasting, pattern recognition,
    and time series analysis a must; proficiency with statistics languages
    including R, SAS, Python or Java is preferred.
  * Experience applying analytic skills to a real-world project, from the early
    stages of solution ideation, algorithm design, and prototyping to tasks
    like input data cleanup, model building, and process rollout and
    implementation.
  * Ability to explain complex problems, solutions, or the essence of a
    quantitative model to a layperson in a simple, understandable way.
  * Experience with mathematical programming and optimization is a big plus.
  * Comfortable with general project management principles and able to critique
    different approaches.
  * Comfortable with conducting in depth research on process matters, without
    losing sight of the big picture and balancing the need to maintain forward
    momentum.
  * Facilitation skills and the ability to steer a diverse group of people
    towards a common goal are a plus

What you didn't know about the team: 
Our team reports into the Strategy Circle, which in turn reports to the COO. We
are a cross functional group that works with stakeholders across the company to
put the operational muscle behind key initiatives required to execute Zappos?s
business strategy. 

Apply Apply Later

Please limit to 2 applications.

The Zappos Family of Companies is committed to Equal Employment Opportunity
regardless of race, color, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age,
religion, veteran status, disability, history of disability or perceived
disability. If you need assistance or an accommodation due to a disability, you
may email us at recruiting@zappos.com or call us at 1.702.943.7777.

To all recruitment agencies: We do not accept unsolicited agency resumes and
are not responsible for any fees related to unsolicited resumes.

? Back to Current Openings
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Share

LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Email
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Similar Jobs

{{ job.title }}

Become an Insider

Don?t See Your Dream Job?

Sign up to become a Zappos Insider and be the first to know about new
opportunities at Zappos!

 

Back to Top
