Skip to Main Content
UPenn Logo

Careers@Penn

Toggle navigation

  • Home
  • Search Jobs
  • Create Account
  • Log In
  • Help

  • Why Penn
  • Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action
  • Faculty Positions
  • Salary Information
  • Sign up for Email Job Alerts

SENIOR DATA SCIENTIST

Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary
documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening.
To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button.

If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the
Bookmark link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your
records, click on the Print Preview link.

Bookmark this Posting | Print Preview | Apply for this Job

Posting Details

Posting Details

  Reference    40-24508
    Number
  Posted Job   SENIOR DATA SCIENTIST
    Title
 School Name   Perelman School of Medicine
     Org       BE-Informatics Division
Posted to the  12/09/2016
     Web
 Posted Job/   D
 Salary Grade
  Employment   Exempt
     Type
    Hours      40.00
Position Type  Full Time
   Position    8:30 to 5:30
   Schedule
    Months     12
   Position    Contingent Upon Funding
    Length
 Position End
     Date
               The University of Pennsylvania, the largest private employer in
               Philadelphia, is a world-renowned leader in education, research,
               and innovation. This historic, Ivy League school consistently
               ranks among the top 10 universities in the annual U.S. News &
               World Report survey. Penn has 12 highly-regarded schools that
               provide opportunities for undergraduate, graduate and continuing
               education, all influenced by Penn’s distinctive
               interdisciplinary approach to scholarship and learning.

               Penn offers a unique working environment within the city of
               Philadelphia. The University is situated on a beautiful urban
  University   campus, with easy access to a range of educational, cultural,
   Overview    and recreational activities. With its historical significance
               and landmarks, lively cultural offerings, and wide variety of
               atmospheres, Philadelphia is the perfect place to call home for
               work and play.

               The University offers a competitive benefits package that
               includes excellent healthcare and tuition benefits for employees
               and their families, generous retirement benefits, a wide variety
               of professional development opportunities, supportive work and
               family benefits, a wealth of health and wellness programs and
               resources, and much more.

               Responsible for the custom and complex application design,
               development, testing, maintenance and documentation of natural
               language processing (NLP) and machine learning (ML) methods and
               applications produced for the Health Language Processing
               Laboratory. Work with investigators and team members to apply
               said methods to the analysis of big data in the biomedical
    Duties     sciences including extraction of data from unstructured text in
               clinical records, literature, social media text, and other
               sources. Supervise staff, students, and postdocs in best
               practices for software engineering, distribution, and support.
               Assign modules of application to junior staff members and ensure
               accurate and complete engineering of the final product.

               The minimum of a Bachelor’s degree and 3 years of professional,
               post-degree computer programming and software engineering
               experience or an equivalent combination of education and
               experience required. M.S. or Ph.D. Degree in Computer Science,
               along with strong progressively responsible experience are
               highly preferred.
               Highly competent in Python and/or Java programming language
               required
               Experience with natural language processing and machine learning
               required
               Experience with annotation projects for natural language
               processing a plus
               Experience with biomedical research and publications a plus
               Experience with development and maintenance of open source
               software a plus
Qualifications Experience with data science a plus
               Experience with information visualization, scientific
               visualization, or visual analytics a plus
               Experience with high-performance computing a plus
               Experience with several programming languages including HTML5,
               JavaScript, Java, C, C++, Perl, R, and/or Python required
               Experience with GitHub for version control a plus
               Experience with Linux, Windows, Mac OS operating systems
               required
               Ability to work with a software development team using formal
               software development methods
               Ability to work independently and apply critical thinking and
               sound judgment
               Excellent organizational and time management skills
               Ability to communicate effectively with team members

               Penn adheres to a policy that prohibits discrimination on the
 Affirmative   basis of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity,
    Action     religion, creed, national or ethnic origin, citizenship status,
  Statement    age, disability, veteran status, or any other legally protected
               class.

   Special     Background check required after a conditional job offer is made.
 Requirements  Consideration of the background check will be tailored to the
               requirements of the job.
  Quick Link   http://jobs.hr.upenn.edu/postings/24549

Posting Supplemental Questions

Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*).

 1. * How did you hear about this employment opportunity?
      □ Jobs@Penn
      □ Contacted by a Penn Recruiter
      □ Referred by a Penn Employee
      □ Referred by a friend or family member
      □ Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (HERC)
      □ Inside Higher Ed
      □ Indeed.com
      □ Other Internet Advertisement
      □ Linkedin
      □ Twitter
      □ Other Social Media Site
      □ Professional Affiliation/Trade Website
      □ Diversity Association/Publication Website
      □ Heard about it at a conference or career fair
      □ Apple One
      □ Recruitment and/or staffing agency
 2. * Do you have professional, post-degree programming experience?
      □ Yes
      □ No
 3. * Are you fluent in Perl and/or Python programming?
      □ yes
      □ no
 4. * Do you have experience with natural language processing and machine
    learning?
      □ Yes
      □ No
 5. * What is your highest level of education completed?
      □ Less than high school education
      □ High School Diploma or GED
      □ Vocational or Technical School
      □ Associate's Degree or Two Year College
      □ Bachelor's Degree
      □ Master's Degree
      □ PHD/MD/JD or equivalent doctoral degree
 6. * How many years of experience do you have related to this position?
      □ 0 to 1 Year
      □ 1 to 2 Years
      □ 2 to 3 Years
      □ 3 to 5 Years
      □ 5 to 7 Years
      □ 7 to 10 Years
      □ Over 10 Years
 7. * Do you have previous experience with biomedical research?
      □ Yes
      □ No
 8. * Do you have experience with information visualization, scientific
    visualization, or visual analytics?
      □ Yes
      □ No
 9. * Do you have experience with several programming languages including
    HTML5, JavaScript, Java, C, C++, Perl, and R?
      □ Yes
      □ No
10. * Do you have experience with git/GitHub?
      □ Yes
      □ No

Applicant Documents

Required Documents

 1. Resume

Optional Documents

 1. Cover Letter

3401 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-6228 | (215) 898-7287

                                                       recruitment@hr.upenn.edu

