CapTech Consulting

Data Scientist (Pharma)

  * Philadelphia, PA
  * Full-time

Company Description

CapTech is an award-winning national management technology-consulting firm with
an enterprising, entrepreneurial environment. We have achieved four straight
years ranked in the Top 10 of Consulting Magazine?s Best Firms to Work For,
including a #5 ranking overall in 2015. Additionally, we placed 28th within the
Vault Consulting 50 for the second year in a row, including a #5 ranking in
work/life balance.

At CapTech you?ll experience a flat organizational structure with access to
constant learning -- where your career path isn?t set in stone, and you have
unlimited potential for growth. CapTech is based upon a culture of mutual
respect. We look for, and hire the best. The creatively innovative, the
technically insightful, the driven, the self-managed, the value conscious, the
caring, and the gracious person ? these are all qualities that we look for
along with a love and a passion for the work that we do.  

Job Description

CapTech Consulting is seeking a highly motivated and technical individual with
a passion for data, experience within the Pharmaceutical industry and
exceptional interpersonal skills to join our Data & Analytics Practice and help
our clients derive insights from their complex data.

Responsibilities

  * Work with clients to understand their business, data, and systems
  * Elicit and produce data requirements based on research and client
    interaction
  * Develop detailed documentation and specifications to support client
    transition
  * Introduce innovative techniques and methodologies that will help clients
    better understand the competitive landscape, improve commercial execution,
    and optimize resource allocation
  * Communicate with all levels of stakeholders as appropriate, including
    executives, data modelers, application developers, business users, and
    customers

Qualifications

  * BA/BS or higher level degree preferably in Business or Healthcare related
    field
  * 5+ Years of experience focused in data and analytics
  * Experience leading and creating quantitative and qualitative analysis to
    support client deliverables and issue resolution
  * Proven success working with large disparate data sets to elicit actionable
    insights.
  * Strong knowledge in MS Office products including Excel, Access, PowerPoint
    and VBA
  * Proficiency in Analytical tools such as SAS, SQL, R, Octave, Matlab,
    Tableau, Qlik or Python, (PANDAs, Scikit-Learn)
  * Demonstrated experience in translating analytical findings to business
    insights and communicating them to non-technical audiences
  * Knowledge and experience across breadth of analytical techniques
  * Prior experience in Pharmaceutical analytics and data is preferred.
      + Commercial or Clinical Analytics
      + Primary and Secondary National and Sub-National data
      + Profile, Sales, Formulary, PlanTrak, APLD, and EMR
  * Knowledge and understanding of the fundamental processes of pharmaceutical
    operations, their interaction, and the impact of external/internal
    influences on decision making, growth and decline
  * Knowledge of professional/trade associations, key people and companies.
  * Proficiency in leading data mining and visualization tools
  * Ability to work onsite at client sites throughout our geographical
    footprint

Additional Information

We offer challenging and impactful jobs with professional career paths. All
CapTechers can keep their hands on technology no matter what position they
hold. Our employees find their work exciting and rewarding in a culture filled
with opportunities to have fun along the way.

At CapTech we offer a competitive and comprehensive benefits package including,
but not limited to:

  * Competitive salary with performance based bonus opportunities
  * Single and Family Health Insurance plans, including Dental coverage
  * Short-Term and Long-Term disability
  * Matching 401(k)
  * Competitive Paid Time Off
  * Training and Certification opportunities eligible for expense reimbursement
  * Team building and social activities
  * Mentor program to help you develop your career

At this time, CapTech cannot transfer nor sponsor a work visa for this
position. Applicants must be authorized to work directly for any employer in
the United States without visa sponsorship.

Candidates must be eligible to work in the U.S. for any employer directly (we
are not open to contract or ?corp to corp? agreements). ??
CapTech is an equal opportunity employer. ?
CapTech is a Drug-Free work place.?
Candidates must have the ability to work at CapTech?s client locations. ?
All positions include the possibility of travel.
CapTech has not contracted/does not contract with any outside vendors in its
recruitment process. If you are interested in this position, please apply to
CapTech directly.



I'm interested
I'm interestedRefer a friend

share this job

  *  
  *  
  *  
  *  

Powered by 

[102035478]
