Skip to Main Content

                                                              [jobs-black]
 Powered by NEOGOV
                                                                • Employment
 Job Title:         Statistician -60015591 - REPOST               Opportunities

 Agency:            Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office           • How to Apply

 Opening Date:      Thu. 12/01/16                               • Applicant
                                                                  FAQs
 State Salary       $39,960.00 - $73,935.00 annually
 Range:                                                         • Notify About
                                                                  Future Job
 Agency Hiring      Min:   Max:                                   Vacancies
 Range:
                                                                • DSHR Home
 Job Type:          Time Limited - Full-Time                      Page

 Location:          Richland County, South Carolina

 Normal Work        Monday - Friday (8:30 - 5:00)
 Schedule:

  

 Print Job Information | Apply  

  
 Job Responsibilities  Benefits  Supplemental Questions
 Additional
  
           ** THIS IS A REPOST, PREVIOUS APPLICANTS NEED NOT
 REAPPLY**
 The Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office is seeking applicants
 for a Statistician with a statistics, biostatistics, or
 biometry background and a desire to continue learning and
 growing in a fast-paced agile environment. Under general
 supervision, performs senior level statistical functions
 for the Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office, Health and
 Demographics section.

 Job responsibilities include:
  

   • Using SAS software, develops programs to create output
     meeting the needs of specific data requests from
     clients and office research activities as related to
     the various data systems; develops tailored reports for
     customers, incorporating latest technologies for
     graphical display of data using the various data
     systems.
   • Collaborates with data providers and users of databases
     on complex research and/or statistical studies and
     projects, including the collection, analysis and
     presentation of data in order to meet management and
     planning needs.
   • Using SAS software, develops patient-level statistical
     databases by linking setting-specific patient-level
     data to meet client needs.
   • Assists in data management and security standards as
     directed.

 This is an opportunity to work with an exciting diverse
 state agency. This position includes benefits.

 Our Health and Demographics serves as the central setting
 for the South Carolina Integrated Data System. Through a
 series of statutes and agreements, agencies and
 organizations entrust their data systems with Health and
 Demographics. These agencies and organizations recognized
 the need to better understand disparities that exist in
 health, education, law enforcement and social services and
 became the driving force to integrate data from these
 systems. The Integrated Data System enables the analysis of
 the use of services and crossover by individuals among
 these agencies and organizations, adds a new dimension to
 information for program management and evaluation, and
 allows for identification and longitudinal analysis of
 cohorts of interest. The philosophy for the integrated data
 system: "It is the entire human experience that influences
 health and social well-being and should therefore be
 captured in an integrated data system."  The use of data
 must be approved by the appropriate participating agencies
 and organizations. 
  
             Minimum and Additional Requirements:
 A master's degree in statistics, biostatistics, or
 biometry; or a master's degree or bachelor's degree in a
 related field with twelve semester hours in statistical
 courses and two years of experience performing statistical
 work, or an equivalent combination of education and
 experience. Minimum one (1) year of Statistical Analysis
 System (SAS) experience required.
 Knowledge of computer system analysis, design, testing, and
 maintenance.
  
                  Preferred Qualifications:
 The following are preferred: Two (2) years of experience
 performing statistical work.
  
  
                     Additional Comments:
 This is a Statistician position within the Revenue and
 Fiscal Affairs Office. The RFA's mission is to provide
 independent research, analysis, and resources to the
 executive and legislative branches of state government,
 local government, and the private sectors to facilitate
 informed policy decisions and administration of services. 
 Candidates must specifically meet the Agency Minimum
 Requirements or an equivalent combination of education and
 experience to be considered for this position. If you
 certify on your application that you have an Associate's
 Degree or higher, you will be required to provide a
 certified official college transcript upon job offer. 
 Failure to produce an official college transcript may
 result in termination. Interview candidates may be required
 to take a skills and knowledge pre-employment test.
  
  

     Department  Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office
          Name:

       Address:  1000 Assembly Street, Suite 402    Columbia,  SC  29201  Map/
                 Directions

         Phone:  803-734-3793

                        THE LANGUAGE USED IN THIS
                        DOCUMENT DOES NOT CREATE AN
                        EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT BETWEEN
                        THE EMPLOYEE AND THE
                        AGENCY. THIS DOCUMENT DOES
                        NOT CREATE ANY CONTRACTUAL
                        RIGHTS OR ENTITLEMENTS. THE
                        AGENCY RESERVES THE RIGHT
                        TO REVISE THE CONTENT OF
                        THIS DOCUMENT, IN WHOLE OR
                        IN PART. NO PROMISES OR
                        ASSURANCES, WHETHER WRITTEN
                        OR ORAL, WHICH ARE CONTRARY
                        TO OR INCONSISTENT WITH THE
                        TERMS OF THIS PARAGRAPH
                        CREATE ANY CONTRACT OF
                        EMPLOYMENT.

