Skip to Main Content

  • Home
  • Search Jobs
  • Create Account
  • Log In
  • Help

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  • FAQ
  • Salary Schedule
  • TCCD Home
  • Employment Procedures
  • TCCD Benefits
  • Campus Security Report

Research Analyst

Bookmark this Posting | Print Preview | Apply for this Job

Posting Details

Please view posting details below. To apply to this posting, please click the
link above.

Position Information

   Job Title     Research Analyst
 Posting Number  F002156
Position Status  Full Time
  Grant Funded   No
    Category     APT
   Class Code    14
    Pay Rate     Commensurate with education and experience
    Location     District
   Department    DT Institutional Research
                 The Office of Institutional Research, Planning and
                 Effectiveness assists with the College’s planning, improvement
                 and institutional assessment initiatives. Responsibilities of
                 the Research Analyst include data: collection, analysis,
  Job Summary    interpretation and reporting. The job requires technical
                 familiarity with data coding structures and conventions,
                 knowledge of methodologies for quantitative and qualitative
                 analysis, and a familiarity with the use of statistical
                 software.

                 • Collaborates with institutional research staff to provide
                 timely, relevant and accurate institutional information to
                 internal and external audiences.
                 • Identifies, designs and executes quantitative, qualitative
                 and survey research projects, providing input on design,
                 development and implementation.
                 • Works with large complex data sets, including exporting/
                 importing from various sources, cleaning data files and
                 maintaining historical records.
                 • Uses statistical techniques and software packages (SPSS).
                 • Prepares reports, summarizing data and analyses that present
                 results in a clear and concise manner for multiple audiences,
                 including the creation of clear and effective charts and
                 tables.
                 • Maintains security of confidential student and employee
                 information.
Essential Duties • Proofreads all reports, correspondence and statistical
      and        tables for accuracy and completeness.
Responsibilities • Attends the workplace regularly, reports to work punctually
                 and follows a work schedule to keep up with the demands of the
                 worksite
                 • Completes all required training and professional development
                 sessions sponsored through Tarrant County College (TCC)
                 • Supports the values of the College: diversity, teaching
                 excellence, student success, innovation and creativity, and
                 service to the College

                 The duties listed are intended only as illustrations of the
                 various types of work that may be performed. The omission of
                 specific statements of duties does not exclude them from the
                 position if the work is similar, related or a logical
                 assignment to the position. The job description does not
                 constitute an employment agreement between the employer and
                 employee and is subject to change by the employer as the needs
                 of the employer and requirements of the job change.

                 • Master’s degree from a regionally accredited college or
                 university in math/statistics, computer science, social/
                 behavioral sciences, higher education administration or a
                 related field
                 • Three (3) years of work experience in a related area
                 • Ability to interact and effectively communicate research
                 methodology and findings to a diverse constituency
    Required     • Ability to have great attention to detail while working on
   Education,    multiple projects with competing deadlines.
  Experience,    • Detail-oriented, organized and resourceful with the ability
Certifications,  to complete projects with rapidly changing priorities
   Licensures    • Willingness to make a professional commitment through
                 continuing education and participation in professional
                 conferences and workshops
                 • Excellent oral and written communication skills
                 • Experience with computerized systems
                 • Proficiency with word processing, spreadsheet and
                 presentation software
                 • Excellent customer service and interpersonal skills

                 • Doctorate degree from a regionally accredited college or
                 university in math/statistics, computer science, social/
                 behavioral sciences, higher education administration or a
                 related field
    Desired      • Experience in accessing data from multiple sources and
   Education,    merging them to perform analyses
  Experience,    • Experience administering and analyzing web-based surveys
Certifications,  • Familiarity with external reporting, including data
   Licensures    collections for Peterson’s, National Student Clearinghouse and
                 IPEDS
                 • Knowledge of CCSSE and SENSE
                 • Knowledge of CBM State Reporting

Physical Demands Please click here for a list of physical demands and work
    and Work     environment.
  Environment
                 Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals
 Accommodations  with disabilities to perform the essential duties and
                 responsibilities.

    Special
  Instructions
    Summary
  Posting Date   01/06/2017

Posting Contact Summary

Should you have questions specific to this position please contact the
following individual

Contact Kira Barrington
   *    kira.barrington@tccd.edu

Applicant Documents

Required Documents

 1. Resume / Curriculum Vitae
 2. Unofficial Transcripts

Optional Documents

 1. Cover Letter

Posting Specific Questions

Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*).

 1. * Please select the highest level of education you have completed.
      □ High School Diploma / GED
      □ 60 or more College Credit Hours
      □ Associate's Degree
      □ Bachelor's Degree
      □ Master's Degree
      □ Doctorate Degree
      □ None of the above
 2. * Do you have a Master’s degree (or higher) in math/statistics, research,
    computer science, social/behavioral sciences, higher education
    administration or a related field from a regionally accredited college or
    university?
      □ Yes
      □ No
 3. * How many years of related experience, specific to this position, do you
    have?
      □ Less than 1 of experience
      □ 1 year of experience
      □ 2 years of experience
      □ 3 years of experience
      □ 4 years of experience
      □ 5 or more years of experience
 4. * How would you rate your level of experience using word processing,
    spreadsheet and presentation software (i.e. Microsoft Word, Excel,
    PowerPoint)?
      □ Advanced
      □ Intermediate
      □ Beginner
      □ None
 5. * Describe your experience as it relates to this position.

    (Open Ended Question)

If you have any additional questions please submit them to: JOBS@tccd.edu.

Tarrant County College District 1500 Houston Street Fort Worth, Texas 76102
Online Institutional Resumes (per Sec. 51A.002, Texas Education Code)
Report A Problem

Copyright © Tarrant County College District. All rights reserved.
