A terminal degree is a university degree that is either highest on the academic track or highest on the professional track in a given field of study. The phrase "terminal degree" is used heavily in the United States, but is used less often outside of North America. The term is not generally used in the United Kingdom or Canada, for example, and its exact meaning varies somewhat between those areas and disciplines in which the term is used.

An earned academic (or research) doctorate[1] such as a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) is considered the terminal degree in most academic fields of study in the United States. However, professional doctorates may be considered terminal degrees within the professional degree track, even though they are prerequisites for research degrees. In addition, in some countries there are degrees which are more advanced than the PhD, such as the higher doctorates in the United Kingdom and Russia, and the habilitation degree awarded in Germany.

Also, not all terminal degrees are doctorates. For example, in professional practice fields there are often terminal master-level degrees such as MEng (Master Engineering), MLArch and MArch standing for Master Landscape Architect and Master Architect or even bachelor-level degrees such as BArch which stands for Bachelor of Architecture or BEng for Engineers, MB (Bachelor of Medicine - UK). Most non-doctoral degrees are not terminal in academic terms, with the exception of the Master of Fine Arts (MFA). The MFA is an academically recognized terminal degree and is given to practitioners in the fine arts and performing arts.

Contents

    1 Research degrees
        1.1 Typical first professional and advanced professional degrees, professional/clinical doctorates and research doctorates
    2 Professional degrees
        2.1 Typical first professional degree
        2.2 Advanced professional degrees
    3 See also
    4 References

Research degrees
Main article: Doctor of Philosophy
	This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2008) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Globe icon.
	The examples and perspective in this section may not represent a worldwide view of the subject. Please improve this article and discuss the issue on the talk page. (December 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

In academic fields, the typical terminal degree is that of Doctor of Philosophy, although others also exist. The first phase of the Ph.D. consists of coursework in the student's field of study and requires one to three years to complete. This is often followed by a preliminary or comprehensive examination and/or a series of cumulative examinations, in which the emphasis is on breadth rather than depth of knowledge. Finally, another two to four years is usually required for the composition of a substantial and original contribution to human knowledge embodied in a written dissertation that in the social sciences and humanities is typically 250 to 450 pages in length. Dissertations generally consist of (i) a comprehensive literature review, (ii) an outline of methodology, and (iii) several chapters of scientific, social, historical, philosophical, or literary analysis. Typically, upon completion, the candidate undergoes an oral examination, sometimes public, by his or her supervisory committee with expertise in the given discipline.
Typical first professional and advanced professional degrees, professional/clinical doctorates and research doctorates

    Doctor of Education (EdD)
    Educational Specialist (EdS)
    Technology:
        Doctor of Engineering (Dr.-Ing./DEng/Dr. Eng./EngD)
        Doctor of Information Technology (DIT)
        Master of Library and Information Science (MLIS, MLS, MSLS) (Given in the US, by an ALA accredited school or program.)
        Doctor of Computer Science (DSc.Comp, DCS, D.C.Sc.), D.C.Sc.)
    Priesthood:
        Doctor of Ministry (DMin)
        Doctor of Theology (ThD or DTh)
    Design:
        Master of Art and Design (MAD) [2]
        Master of Architecture (M.Arch)
        Doctor of Architecture (D.Arch)
        Doctor of Design (DDes)
        Master of Design (MDes) [3]
        Master of Landscape Architecture (MLArch and/or MLA)
        Master of City Planning (MPLAN, MCRP, MUP, MCP, MCD or MURP)
        Master of Fine Arts (MFA)
        Master of Graphic Design (MGraph) [4]
    Arts:
        Doctor of Arts (DA)
        Doctor of Music (DM)
        Doctor of Musical Arts (DMA) (Usually awarded to performance majors in the musical arts)
        Doctor of Modern Languages (DML)
        Doctor of Philosophy (PhD or DPhil)
        Doctor of Professional Studies (DPS)
    Management:
        Doctor of Business Administration (DBA)
        Doctor of Management (DMgt or DM)
        Master of Project Management (MPM)
        Doctor of Public Administration (DPA)
        Doctor of Economic Development(DED) [5]
    Healthcare:
        Doctor of Behavioral Health (DBH)
        Doctor of Healthcare Administration (DHA)
        Doctor of Health Science (DHSc)
        Doctor of Medical Physics (DMP)
        Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)
        Doctor of Occupational Therapy (DOT or OTD)
        Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT)
        Doctor of Podiatric Medicine (DPM)
        Doctor of Psychology (PsyD)
        Doctor of Public Health (DrPH, DPH)
        Doctor of Science (DSc)
        Doctor of Social Science (DSocSci)
    Law:
        Doctor of Canon Law (JCD)
        Doctor of Juridical Science (JSD/SJD) (in the U.S.)

Professional degrees
Main article: First Professional degree
	This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2008) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

A professional degree is a degree that is required, often by law as in the case of medical and other clinical professions, that must be earned first before the holder of the degree can practice in the profession. A speech-language pathologist, for example, must hold a master's degree in communicative disorders: speech-language pathology in order to practice, but an actor does not need a degree to act, even though there are degrees for acting available. In some fields, especially those linked to a profession (such as medicine or law), a distinction is to be drawn between a first professional degree, an advanced professional degree, and a terminal academic degree. A first professional degree is generally required by law or custom to practice the profession without limitation. An advanced professional degree provides further training in a specialized area of the profession. A first professional degree is an academic degree designed to prepare the holder for a particular career or profession, fields in which scholarly research and academic activity are not the profession, but rather the practice of the profession. In many cases such as law and medicine, the first professional degree is also the terminal degree, usually because no further advanced degree is required for practice in that field, even though more advanced academic degrees may exist.
Typical first professional degree

    Business:
        Master of Accountancy (MAcc, MAcy, MSAcy)
        Business Administration (MBA)[6]
    Design:
        Architect (B.Arch, M.Arch, D.Arch)
        Architectural Engineering (B.A.E, M.A.E)
        Landscape Architect (BLArch-First Professional Degree)
        Urban Planning (MPLAN, MCRP, MUP, MCP, MCD or MURP)
    Bachelor of Education or a Bachelor's usable for teaching (BEd), or BA, BME, BSE,BSocSc, BSc
    Engineer/ Engineering (BE, BEng, MEng, BSE, BScEng, BASc)[7]
    Healthcare:
        Advanced Practice Nurse (DNP, DNAP, DNS, DNSc)
        Audiologist (MS, or AuD)
        Master of Health Administration (MHA)
        Mental Health Counselor (MA, MSc, PhD)
        Dentist (DMD, BDent, DDS, BDS, BDSc, BChD, CD, Cand.Odont., Dr.Med.Dent. etc.)
        Midwife (BMid, BScMid)
        Nurse (BSN, BSc)
        Occupational Therapy (OTD, DrOT, or MSOT, MA, MOT)
        Optometrist (OD, B.Optom)
        Pharmacist (BPharm, BScPhm, PharmB, MPharm, PharmD)
        Physical Therapist (DPT, DPhysio, MPT, BSPT)
        Physician or Surgeon (M.D., D.O., MBBS, MDCM, MBChB, BMed, Dr.med, Dr.MuD, Cand.med, etc.).
        Physician Assistant (MPAS, MPS, MS)
        Podiatrist (DPM, DP, BPod, PodB, or PodD)
        Psychologist (PhD, PsyD, ClinPsyD or EdS)
        Radiation Therapist (BSc, BRad)
        Radiographer (BSc, BMRSc or BRad)
        Scientist (BSc, BS)
        Social worker (BSW, BA, BSc)
        Speech-Language Pathology (MA, MS)
        Veterinarian (DVM, VMD, BVS, BVSc, BVMS, etc.)
    Lawyer (J.D., LL.B.)
    Minister (MDiv)

Advanced professional degrees

    Education (MEd, MAT, MT, EdS)[8]
    Engineering (MEng, MASc, MMSc, PD[9])
    Health care:
        Advanced Practice Registered Nurse (APRN: CRNA, NP, CNM, CNS) (DNP, DNAP, DNS, DNSc)
        Biotechnology (ALM)
        Dental Science (DDSc, Dr.Odont) (advanced degree in countries that award a bachelor's degree in dental surgery as first professional degree, usually awarded for outstanding research to a particular field of Dentistry)
        Dentistry (MDS, MSD, MDSc, or DClinDent) (these are usually granted at the culmination of a specialty training program in dentistry in those programs that also require research and a thesis to be completed)
        Medicine (MD) (advanced degree in countries that award a bachelor's degree in medicine or surgery as first professional degree, usually awarded for outstanding research to a particular field of Medicine)** Midwifery (MMid, MScMid)
        Surgery (MS, MSurg, MCh, ChM, or MChir) (Usually granted after completion of surgery training program in conjunction with a research thesis)
        Psychology (PsyD)
        Social Science (DSocSci)
        Social Work (MSW, DSW, ProfD or PhD)
    Lawyer (LLM, LLD, PhD, JSD)
    Ministry (DMin)

