Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist

Data Scientist

Requisition ID 
    2016-22170

Job Locations 
    US-OR-Portland

Category (Portal Searching) 
    Analyst/Data Analytics

More information about this job:

Overview:

Data Scientist

Portland, OR

Responsibilities & Requirements:

Cambia Health Solutions is working to create a seamless and frictionless health
care experience for consumers nationwide. This presents a unique challenge and
opportunity for innovative and disruptive solutions from the Data Office.

Our Data Scientists design, develop, and implement data-driven solutions using
machine learning technologies and advanced statistical analyses. You should be
passionate about finding insights in data, comfortable with large and
fragmented data sets, and command a variety of analytic tools at your disposal.

The ideal candidate is an independent, solution-oriented thinker with a strong
background processing large data sets, applying analytical rigor and
statistical methods, and driving toward actionable insights and novel
solutions.

Responsibilities

  * Research, design, develop, and implement machine learning technologies.
  * Work in a multi-disciplined team where you?ll take full ownership of
    turning discoveries and ideas into machine learning models. You?ll use the
    model?s output to create and improve products for our customers.
  * Design, implement, and analyze online experiments, including A/A and A/B
    testing, in a variety of configuration environments.

Requirements

  * BA/BS degree (or equivalent experience) in a strongly quantitative field
    such as: Statistics, Applied Mathematics, Physics, Operations Research,
    Computer Science, or Econometrics and 3 years of database analytics
    experience or equivalent combination of education and experience. Master's
    or PhD degree preferred. Ideally, with a specialization in entity
    resolution/disambiguation, information retrieval, machine learning, or
    natural language processing.
  * Experience with state-of-the-art techniques in machine learning algorithms,
    including deep neural networks, NLP, kernel methods, dimensionality
    reduction, ensemble methods, graph algorithms, and hidden Markov models.
  * Strong analytical skills and comfortable work with large data sets and
    ability to transform data into actionable insights.
  * Exceptional technical skills:
  * Strong programming skills in at least one language such as Python, Java,
    Scala, C++, Julia
  * Experience with SQL and relational databases.
  * Experience with unstructured & semi-structured data sources and requisite
    processing tools.
  * Ability to work in an agile environment.

Preferred Capabilities & Responsibilities

  * Passion for helping healthy people stay well and for improving the comfort
    and health level of sick people as efficiently and compassionately as
    possible.
  * Familiarity with retail, e-commerce, or financial analytics, including
    approaches such as life event modeling, customer lifetime value.
  * Experience in Hadoop, Spark, Storm or related paradigms and associated
    languages such as Pig, Hive, Mahout
  * Experience in AWS, Azure, or other cloud ecosystems
  * Familiarity with NoSQL databases: DynomoDB, Cassandra, MongoDB, or Neo4j.
  * Familiarity with Elasticsearch, Soir, or Lucene.
  * Published work in academic conferences or industry circles.
  * Demonstrated ability to guide and contribute to research of new analytic
    approaches, inference algorithms, and machine learning techniques.

 

This position is posted at levels I, II, Senior or Principal DOE.

About Us:

At Cambia, we advocate for transforming the health care system. You aren?t
satisfied with the status quo and neither are we. We're looking for individuals
who are as passionate as we are about transforming the way people experience
health care. We offer a competitive salary and a generous benefits package. We
are an equal opportunity employer dedicated to workforce diversity and a drug
and tobacco-free workplace. All qualified applicants will receive consideration
for employment without regard to race, color, national origin, religion, age,
sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, protected veteran status
or any other status protected by law. A drug screen and background check is
required.

Cambia?s portfolio of companies spans health care information technology and
software development; retail health care; health insurance plans that carry the
Blue Cross and Blue Shield brands; pharmacy benefit management; life,
disability, dental, vision and other lines of protection; alternative solutions
to health care access; and free-standing health and wellness solutions.

We have nearly a century of experience in developing and providing health
solutions to serve our members. We had our beginnings in the logging
communities of the Pacific Northwest as innovators in helping workers afford
health care. That pioneering spirit has kept us at the forefront as we build
new avenues to improve access to and quality of health care for the future.

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed

Need help finding the right job?

We can recommend jobs specifically for you! Click here to get started.
#Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

