Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Senior Statistical Analyst

Senior Statistical Analyst

Job ID 
    2016-15646

Number of Positions 
    1

Job Locations 
    USA-MD-Silver Spring

Job Function 
    Science and Engineering

Security Clearance Level 
    None

More information about this job

Job Description

Position Summary:

Assist in the development, implementation and completion of Continuous Process
Improvement (CPI) within Defense and Veterans Brain Injury Center (DVBIC) and
network sites and throughout the Department of Defense?s (DoD) Traumatic Brain
Injury (TBI) Pathway of Care. The incumbent will also assist with Program
Improvement and Evaluation (PIE) office?s Program Evaluation (PE) initiatives.

 

Primary Responsibilities:

  * Under the direction of the Chief of PIE Office, the incumbent coordinates
    and participates in DVBIC and Continuous Process Improvement (CPI) and
    Program Evaluations (PE) efforts throughout the organization and the DoD?s
    TBI Pathway of Care.
  * Serves as a subject matter expert on CPI activities.
  * Serves as either a project lead or project support as directed.
  * Ensure CPI and PE efforts are conducted in a manner that is in compliance
    with all appropriate regulatory requirements, laws and DoD/DCoE/DVBIC
    policies, regulations and procedures.
  * Assists/conducts CPI training for DVBIC and the DoD?s TBI Pathway of Care.
  * Provides input on manpower utilization, work flow, and operational
    procedures to increase efficiency, productivity, and make overall
    improvements for the program
  * Ensures data quality and statistic management of data
  * Assist with the planning, implementation/ execution and follow-up for
    approved CPI and PE
  * Review and assess performance metrics, progress on milestones, and
    deliverables of continous process improvement initiatives
  * Interfaces with DVBIC and external members of the DoD?s Pathway of Care, as
    well as other DoD and non-DoD government agencies in areas of CPI and PE as
    directed of the government.
  * Coordinate with other technical and professional staff to prepare
    documents, written reports and presentations
  * Serve as directed as a key member of internal and external working groups
    related to CPI or Program Evaluation.
  * Inform the Chief of PIE of key accomplishments, risks, and concerns related
    to CPI and PE efforts
  * The incumbent also performs other duties related to CPI, PE and management
    of data.
  * Prepares reports and/or presentations (monthly/ quarterly/annual) under the
    direction of the office Chief, responds to tasking in coordination with the
    office chief, etc.
  * Act in a back-up role for the Program Evaluation Specialist
  * Support Six Sigma implementation for Government customers deploying Lean
    Six Sigma within their organizations. This Lean champion will help
    establish Lean Six Sigma methodologies, including:

     1. Support the implementation of Lean Six Sigma for Government initiatives
        to establish continuous process improvement programs
     2. Support the develop of Lean Six Sigma initiative and project objectives
        to align with a Government agency's business strategy
     3. Provide technical leadership for improvement projects assigned to
        Government project to enhance their Lean Six Sigma understanding
     4. Facilitate the change management processes to meet Government customer
        improvement needs
     5. Identify and promote process improvement efforts
     6. Provide process improvement expertise for tools and techniques for Lean
        Six Sigma improvement
     7. Advise and support program management regarding Lean Six Sigma
        improvement efforts that promote organizational culture change.
     8. Support Six Sigma implementation for DVBIC, including assisting with
        the adoption of Lean Six Sigma methodologies and other process
        improvement methodologies within DVBIC and its network sites.
     9. Support the implementation of Lean Six Sigma for Government initiatives
        to establish continuous process improvement programs

 

Non Primary Responsibilities:
                                                                                                                      

  * Other duties consistent with the above responsibilities.

  * Other duties that support the PIE office or its initiatives, to include
    program/process improvement.

 

Education

Bachelor's degree in health sciences, computer science, information system
management or a related field required. Master's degree preferred.

Qualifications

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: Knowledge of system analysis and design, SQL,
data upload and statistical data set creation for data analysis; experience
with relational databases; excellent communication skills. S/he must adhere to
legal, professional and ethical codes with respect to confidentiality and
privacy.

Minimum Experience: 4-6 years? experience with process improvement, to include
LSS methodologies. Prior experience within the DoD/VA systems of care strongly
preferred.

Physical Capabilities: Must be able to sit and stand for long periods of time.
Must be able to carry light items ? up to 25 lbs. May encounter patients who
are confused, agitated, or abusive.

Supervisory Responsibilities/Controls: None.

Work Environment: Office and clinical environment. Must be available to travel
locally, regionally and nationally.

Options

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed!
#Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQsPowered by the iCIMS Talent Platform (Opens new window)

Software Powered by iCIMS

