Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

SAS Summer Fellowships in Machine Learning

SAS Summer Fellowships in Machine Learning

Requisition ID 
    20015140

Job Locations 
    US-NC-Cary

Category 
    Intern/Entry-Level

Visa Sponsorship 
    No

Travel Requirements 
    ..

Overview

Germany SAS

The Machine Learning Algorithms team at SAS is pleased to announce the SAS
Summer Fellowship in Machine Learning for the summer of 2017. We are looking
for highly qualified, motivated, and innovative students to join our team.

 

Open to doctoral candidates in applied mathematics, computer science,
electrical and computer engineering, statistics and related graduate
departments in the United States, the fellowship offers the opportunity to
assist in the research and development of new machine learning algorithms in
the high performance world. The Machine Learning Fellow will contribute to
activities such as literature review, research, development, publish at top
level research conferences, and prepare demos for business oriented ML
conferences. The fellow will work closely with professional machine learning
experts who develop software used in many areas throughout the world.

 

** To be considered for this summer Fellowship opportunity, you must attach a
copy of your resume to this application by January 31, 2017.  You must also
ensure that 2 faculty members from the university/college you're currently
attending send a letter of recommendation to this email address:
SASFellows@sas.com .

 

Essential

  ● Ph.D in applied mathematics, computer science, electrical and computer
    engineering, statistics, and related graduate departments in the United
    States, with at least 2 years of graduate studies completed by the end of
    the spring 2017 semester.
  ● Coursework in machine learning, data mining, statistical modeling.
    Demonstrated experience in machine learning algorithms beyond the
    coursework.
  ● Ability to ensure that 2 faculty members from your university/college email
    letters of recommendation to SASFellows@sas.com by January 31, 2017. Please
    include your name and the job requisition number in the subject line of the
    email.

Preferences

  ● Research experience in computational aspects of machine learning
    algorithms.
  ● Research and development experience in topological data analysis (TDA).
  ● Knowledge in exploratory data analysis, feature engineering and
    visualization techniques.
  ● Coursework in computational topology.
  ● Demonstrated experience in C, C++, Python.
  ● Experience in distributed/parallel algorithms.

 About SAS:
SAS believes in the whole employee experience. Meaningful work. Empowerment to
make a difference that changes people’s lives. Dynamic work environments that
foster innovation. And an award-winning culture that makes it all possible. We
believe great ideas can come from anywhere. Whether you're a university
recruit, or an experienced professional ready for the next big challenge, SAS
brings perks, passion, and the potential to grow. No limits.

 

 

 Want to stay up to date on SAS culture, products and jobs? Follow us on
LinkedIn LinkedIn Logo

 

Additional Information
To qualify, applicants must be legally authorized to work in the United
States. SAS is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will
receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion,
sex, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status or any other
characteristic protected by law. The level of this position will be determined
based on the applicant's education, skills and experience. Resumes may be
considered in the order they are received. SAS employees performing certain job
functions may require access to technology or software subject to export or
import regulations. To comply with these regulations, SAS may obtain
nationality or citizenship information from applicants for employment. SAS
collects this information solely for trade law compliance purposes and does not
use it to discriminate unfairly in the hiring process.

Options

 
Apply Now!Apply
Share
 
Share with a FriendRefer
Share with your networks
[back]Back to Start/Home Page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

