[header_aCI]
Your browser cookies must be enabled in order to apply for this job. Please
contact support@jobscore.com if you need further instruction on how to do that.

Member of Research Staff - Machine Learning

software research and engineering | Palo Alto, CA | Full Time

Job Description

The Machine Learning (ML) group at PARC has an opening for a research
scientist. 

 

About the Job

PARC attracts the most talented researchers wanting to transform their ideas
into real-world breakthroughs, working in collaboration with talented,
multidisciplinary and diverse colleagues, and partnering with academia and
leading domain experts in industry. The ML group is a growing research group
with world-class strengths in probabilistic graphical modeling, statistical
relational learning, computer vision, data mining, big data, diagnostics, and
simulation. Efforts in the ML group cover a range of technology maturity, from
abstract algorithm formulation all the way to embedded software implementation
on physical hardware platforms and span various application domains such as
healthcare, cyber security, intelligent transportation systems, consumer goods,
finance, manufacturing, and energy.

 

We are currently seeking a research scientist with machine learning and data
mining expertise to join a team of researchers developing innovative machine
learning methods for autonomous learning in unstructured environments under
weak supervision. Applications include building systems for medical decision
support, automated customer care, autonomous control systems for transport
regulation, cyber threat detection, and user behavior and preference modeling. 
The ideal candidate is a self-starter who can work collaboratively in a team
setting, refine application concepts, and take ideas from the drawing board to
prototype deployment.


Responsibilities

  * Design, develop, and deliver innovative approaches, algorithms, methods,
    and models

  * Design and deliver software prototypes

  * Contribute to efforts on engaging customers and developing new business
    opportunities, including proposal development

 

Requirements

  * Ph.D. or equivalent experience in Computer Science, Engineering,
    Mathematics or Statistics

  * Experience in machine learning and data mining with focus on one or more of
    the following areas: probabilistic inference, sequential decision making,
    deep learning, reinforcement learning, active learning

  * Experience working with unstructured data sources such as images or text

  * Experience in scientific programming, algorithm design and development

  * Experience in writing grant proposals

  * Good presentation and written communication skills

  * Commitment to developing quality software

  * Experience with Python, Java, C++, R, or other high-level programming
    languages

 

Benefits

We offer a very competitive salary package and full benefits (medical, dental,
vision, life & disability insurance, 401K). PARC employees enjoy the use of
onsite health & fitness center and collegial dining at our onsite cafeteria.
The PARC campus is in a spacious modern building in close proximity to the
resources and opportunities of Silicon Valley and benefits from nearby leading
universities such as Stanford and Berkeley. It is also close to many amenities,
top schools, and outdoor activities (see http://www.parc.com/about/
culture.html). PARC provides a highly diverse environment and is proud to be an
equal opportunity employer (see http://www.parc.com/about/careers/).

About PARC

PARC, a Xerox company, is in the Business of Breakthroughs?. Practicing open
innovation, we provide custom R&D services, technology, expertise, best
practices, and intellectual property to Fortune 500 and Global 1000 companies,
startups, and government agencies and partners. We create new business options,
accelerate time to market, augment internal capabilities, and reduce risk for
our clients.

Since its inception, PARC has pioneered many technology platforms ? from the
Ethernet and laser printing to the GUI and ubiquitous computing ? and has
enabled the creation of many industries. Incorporated as an independent, wholly
owned subsidiary of Xerox in 2002, PARC today continues the research that
enables breakthroughs for our clients' businesses.

PARC is an Equal Opportunity Employer and considers applicants for all
positions without regard to race, color, religion or  belief, sex, age,
national origin, citizenship status, marital status, military/veteran status,
genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity, physical or mental
disability or any other characteristic protected by applicable laws.  People
with disabilities who need a reasonable accommodation to apply or compete for
employment with PARC should contact PARC Human Resources.

Return to PARC, a Xerox company
Apply for this job
Apply for this job
Apply for this job
SHARE
Not the right job?
Join our Talent Network
Return to PARC, a Xerox company
POWERED BY
 
APPLICANT TRACKING
Quantcast
