The Climate Corporation Careers

Intern: Data Analytics

University Recruiting San Francisco, CA or St. Louis, MO, United States

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Apply

Description

Position Overview:
The Climate Corporation’s mission is to help the world’s farmers sustainably
increase their productivity with digital tools.  The Data and Analytics team is
focused on creating competitive advantage for Climate and our customers through
novel data infrastructure, metrics, insights and data services.  We are a small
but rapidly growing analysis and engineering team that builds and leverages
state-of-the-art analytics systems. Our work informs decisions and direction
for our business, while also impacting our products.  We are looking for an
intern data software engineer to help build efficient and reliable data
pipelines across systems and enable Climate to take full advantage of the data
by delivering next generation data tools.

What you will do:

  • Opportunity to partner with Data Scientist to leverage/learn NoSQL
    technologies such as Spark and Hadoop along with similar Machine Learning
    technologies.
  • Expand our business by providing strategic data to partner groups and
    product groups via platform level real-time REST based API services for
    targeting, personalization and recommendations
  • Develop and maintain the data infrastructure that drives the data pipeline
    for analytics.
  • Evaluate new technologies and products.  
  • Develop infrastructure to inform on key metrics, recommend changes, predict
    future results and that feed product features as well.
  • Work closely with partner groups and product groups to gather new data and
    leverage existing data to improve our products and services

Basic Qualifications:

  • Pursuing a Bachelors or Masters in Computer Science or related technical
    discipline (or equivalent)
  • 1+ years programming experience preferably in Java and/or SQL.
  • Solid understanding of object oriented (OO) programming.
  • Experience working with web applications and relational databases.
  • A solid foundation in computer science, with competencies in data
    structures, algorithms and software design.

Preferred Qualifications:

  • Familiarity with AWS, SQL, and PL/SQL
  • Experience in MPP systems like Redshift/Vertica/Teradata and map/reduce
    systems like Hadoop or Spark.
  • Familiarity with NoSQL tools like Hadoop (hive, pig, spark, hbase, membase)
     and Spark.<span


What We Offer:
Our team is composed of top scientists and engineers. The environment is
extremely engaging and fast-paced, with a diverse set of top agronomists,
statisticians and engineers working together to provide the best possible
products and experiences for our customers.

We provide competitive salaries, excellent medical benefits, and some of the
best perks in the industry, including:

  • Competitive pay and perks
  • We provide meals & a large assortment of snacks and drinks to get you
    through the day
  • 1:1 Mentoring from a talented and motivated employee on your team
  • Opportunity to work on real projects with experience employees and have a
    direct impact on the company.
  • The amazing opportunity to participation in one of our Biotechnology Tours
    where you get out of the office and into the field (literally) with agents
    and farmers
  • Award winning offices with smart designs, large common areas and open floor
    plans that fuel collaboration
  • Various company sponsored events, activities and off-sites to make sure
    interns are having fun!
  • We regularly host meet-up groups and tech-talks and encourage participation
    in relevant workshops and conferences
  • Facilitated interaction with key executives and leadership


About Us:
The Climate Corporation aims to help all the world's farmers sustainably
increase their productivity through the use of digital tools. The integrated
Climate FieldView™ digital agriculture platform provides farmers with a
comprehensive, connected suite of digital tools. Bringing together seamless
field data collection, advanced agronomic modeling and local weather monitoring
into simple mobile and web software solutions, Climate FieldView™ Prime,
Climate FieldView™ Plus and Climate FieldView™ Pro give farmers a deeper
understanding of their fields so they can make more informed operating
decisions to optimize yields, maximize efficiency and reduce risk.  For more
information, please visit www.climate.com or follow the company on
Twitter@climatecorp.



#LI-DNP

Apply Apply Later
← Back to Current Openings
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Share

LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Email

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Powered by Jobvite

