Skip Navigation
The Home Depot The Home Depot Toggle navigation

  • 
    Search Jobs
  • 
    Culture
  • 
    Career Areas
  • 
    Campus Connect
  • 
    Events
  • 
    Videos
  • 
    Careers Home

The Home Depot Banner The Home Depot Banner
Toggle navigation [9_box] Menu

  • [menu_icon_] My Account
  • [menu_icon_] Saved Jobs (0)
  • [menu_icon_] Sign In

Job Details
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Data Scientist Ops Research (103555)

GA - Atlanta

  • Date Posted: Oct 20, 2016
  • Company: The Home Depot
  • Travel: 0-10%

  • Functional Area: Logistics/Supply Chain/Import
  • Position Type: Full-Time
  • Relocation Provided: No

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
cp.jobdetails.sn.label.facebook cp.jobdetails.sn.label.linkedin
cp.jobdetails.sn.label.twitter

Email a Friend [Save] Apply with LinkedIn [Apply Now]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Position Description:

Position Description

Position Purpose: A Data Scientist leverages their technical abilities to
synthesize complex analytical tasks into easily understood data-driven stories.
Data Scientists are responsible for organizing, analyzing, and then sharing
insights gleaned from data. Develops predictive systems and algorithms for
identifying trends and driving business solutions. Utilizes industry-leading
standards for working with very large datasets to extract meaningful business
information using statistics, machine learning, and heuristics. Operates with
minimal supervision and once given general assignments, prioritizes and
executes tasks.

 

Major Tasks, Responsibilities & Key Accountabilities:

20%-Designs and develops algorithms and models that use large datasets to
derive business insights.

20%-Establishes scalable, efficient processes for large scale data analyses,
model development, and model implementation.

20%-Ensures the quality of work output by displaying a keen attention to
detail.

20%-Presents findings in easily understood ways, focuses on how the data
analytics fits into the bigger picture

10%-Mentors and develops the technical skills of Analysts and Sr. Analysts.

10%-Seeks further knowledge on key developments within data science, technical
skill sets, and additional data sources within Home Depot.

 

Nature and Scope: Position reports to Manager or Sr. Manager This position has
no direct reports 

Environmental Job Requirements: Environment: 1. Located in a comfortable indoor
area. Any unpleasant conditions would be infrequent and not objectionable.
Travel: 1. Typically requires overnight travel less than 10% of the time.


ESSENTIAL SKILLS:

ESSENTIAL SKILLS

Standard Minimum Qualifications:

  • Must pass the Drug Test.
  • Must pass Background Check.
  • Education Required:  The knowledge, skills and abilities typically acquired
    through the completion of a bachelor's degree program or equivalent degree
    in a field of study related to the job. 

Work Experience Required: 5

Physical Requirements: 1. Most of the time is spent sitting in a comfortable
position and there is frequent opportunity to move about. On rare occasions
there may be a need to move or lift light articles. 

 

 

 

Education and Experience Required:

  • Bachelors degree in Computer Science, Math, Engineering, or related
    quantitative field and 5+ years’ experience in position offered or related
    position

(or)

  • Masters Degree in Computer Science, Math, Engineering, or related
    quantitative field and 3+ years’ experience in position offered or related
    position

 


Required  Qualifications

Very strong knowledge in Operations Research techniques and experienced in
developing Linear and Mixed Integer programming optimization models

Design and develop optimization algorithms/Heuristic models using advanced
programming languages (like C++, Java,C# etc) to help optimize supply chain
operations.

Strong relational database skills (Access, SQL Server, etc.) and SQL skills
(Writing complex queries to pull large sets of data, performing analysis using
SQL queries)

Strong understanding of Object Oriented Programming Language (C++, Java, C#,
etc.)

Strong direct experience in analyzing the relevant subject matter (Supply
Chain, Merchandising, Distribution, Operations)

Proficiency in Excel (Pivot Tables, V-Lookup, Macros, VBA, etc.) a must


We are an Equal Opportunity Employer and do not discriminate against any
employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, sex, age, national
origin, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, status as a veteran, and
basis of disability or any other federal, state or local protected class.

jobDetails
    < Back to The Home Depot Careers
