
The Boston Consulting Group [claim]



 
                                                                      ?     [p]
[pixel]       Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Current [pixel]
                page                                  page                                  page                                 page
                Home                                 Search                                Search                                 Job                                                                                                          
                                                    openings                               results                              details
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
   ● Job details
                  
   [pixel]                                    [pixel]
   [pixel]

  [pixel]
                                  Job 1 of 1
  [pixel]
                                                                               
               Apply   Recommend to a friend   Save to cart   

   [pixel]

   Job Title          Data Scientist

   Function           Analytics

   Country            United States

   City/Town          Los Angeles

   Employee Type      Regular

   Job Type           Full time

   Company            The Boston Consulting Group (BCG) is a global
   Information        management consulting firm and the world’s leading
                      advisor on business strategy. We partner with clients
                      from the private, public, and not-for-profit sectors
                      in all regions to identify their highest value
                      opportunities, address their most critical
                      challenges, and transform their enterprises. BCG was
                      founded in 1963 and is a privately owned firm with
                      more than 7,000 employees across 85 offices in 48
                      countries. Integrity, respect for the individual,
                      delivering value, and making an impact on society are
                      just some of BCG's core values. BCG's commitment to
                      both our clients' success and our own standards is
                      what sets BCG apart as a world-class professional
                      services organization. Join BCG - start your career
                      at a company that is consistently ranked as the
                      leader in its field, and is acknowledged as one of
                      the best places to work.

   Position Summary   BCG Gamma is seeking highly skilled, creative, and
                      driven Data Scientist to design and build
                      breakthrough approaches and solutions for our
                      clients.
                       
                      Our ideal Data Scientist is an accomplished expert
                      with deep technical credibility and implementation
                      skills – he/she designs, prototypes, develops, and
                      fields predictive models and analytical approaches
                      that power a critical business function. The
                      successful candidate will also have demonstrated
                      ability to manage projects, provide thought
                      leadership and act as an autonomous member of a BCG
                      case team. Strong communication and presence,
                      collaboration, leadership skills, and ability to
                      operate effectively in a matrix organization are key
                      success factors.
                       
                      The Data Scientist will also proactively work with
                      Gamma senior leadership to explore new analytics
                      opportunities and grow Gamma's portfolio of
                      proprietary content. He/she will support the creation
                      of proposal / selling documents and provide
                      perspective on relevant analytics value propositions.
                       
                      The work environment is fast-paced, intellectually
                      intense, and service-oriented. We are looking for
                      professionals in Los Angeles or San Francisco. 
                       

   Job                We are seeking a strong candidate with advanced
   Responsibilities   analytics experience to fill an exciting Data
                      Scientist (DS) position within BCG Gamma. The DS is a
                      valuable expert in Data Science and Analytics and
                      will design and build analytics methodologies,
                      solutions, and products to deliver value to BCG's
                      clients in collaboration with case teams. Exceptional
                      candidates will also show an analytical curiosity,
                      going beyond the immediate requirements of the
                      project to find deep insights that others have
                      missed. They will ask questions about outliers, seek
                      to understand the fundamental drivers of advantage
                      and look for clues that may change the basis of
                      competition.
                       
                      As a Data Scientist you design and build analytics
                      solutions for our clients where data and analytics
                      are at the heart of the question. The team
                      interaction centers on use of statistical programs
                      and others tools to conduct intensive analysis of
                      objective data and open discussion, complemented by
                      objective research into the competitive environment.
                      Responsibilities / duties to include: understand
                      problems from the client’s point of view, build and
                      execute solid analytics work plans, gather and
                      organize large and complex data assets, perform
                      relevant analyses (data exploration and statistical
                      modeling), manage priorities and deadlines, foster
                      teamwork in interactions, develop client
                      relationships with client counterparts, and
                      communicate hypotheses and findings in a structured
                      way.
                       
                      As the field of advanced analytics is rapidly
                      evolving, the DS is responsible for staying current
                      on leading-edge business applications, tools and
                      approaches, proactively working with the Analytics
                      Leadership to enhance offerings that deliver
                      competitive advantage to BCG.
                       

   Basic Job          Strong primary expertise as data engineer or data
   Requirements       scientist, with the ability to stretch beyond one’s
                      core field of expertise. Successful candidates share
                      the following requirements:

                        • PhD or MA/MS + 2-5 years relevant experience as a
                          strong contributor on a data science team
                        • Relevant degree in Statistics, Math / Applied
                          Math, Geo and special analysis, Operations
                          Research, Computer Science, Economics or
                          Quantitative Finance
                        • Domain expertise in at least one analytics
                          function: attribution, segmentation, response
                          modeling, churn, propensity, customer LTV, supply
                          chain / logistics, geospatial inference,
                          recommender systems, causal inference,
                          forecasting, pricing, NLP or image processing
                        • Proficiency in a core programming language, such
                          as: Python, C/C++, Scala, Java, Ruby
                        • Proficiency in R, particularly to prototype
                          mathematical models
                        • Proficiency with SQL and/or NoSQL
                        • Proficiency with Tableau, R-Shiny /or other data
                          visualization tools
                        • Ability to scope and define data sets needed for
                          specific use cases and identifying data gaps
                        • Ability to translate scientific insights into
                          product decisions and work streams
                        • Flexibility to handle directional changes and
                          moving priorities to ensure project success
                        • Strong oral and written communication skills
                        • Strong client management skills – ability to lead
                          and persuade, positive energy, relentless focus
                          on business impact
                        • Travel expected 40-70% of time
                      
   Additional         To learn more about BCG Gamma please visit: 
   Information        http://www.bcg.com/about/bcg-today/gamma.aspx 
                       

   Non-discrimination The Boston Consulting Group is an Equal Opportunity
   Statement          Employer. All qualified applicants will receive
                      consideration for employment without regard to race,
                      color, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender
                      identity / expression, national origin, disability,
                      protected veteran status, or any other characteristic
                      protected under federal, state or local law, where
                      applicable. BCG is an E-Verify Employer. Click here 
                      for more information on E-Verify. VEVRAA Federal
                      Contractor

   Job ID             3079BR
                                                                               
               Apply   Recommend to a friend   Save to cart   
                                                                               



© 2015 The Boston Consulting Group
Privacy
Terms of Use

The Boston Consulting Group is an Equal Opportunity Employer. All qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression,
national origin, disability, protected veteran status, or any other
characteristic protected under federal, state or local law, where applicable.
In addition to our privacy policy, the following information protection policy
also applies to your application with The Boston Consulting Group.

