Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist Internship Summer of 2017

Data Scientist Internship Summer of 2017

Job Locations 
    US-NY-New York

Category 
    Internship

Travel 
    None

Level 
    Individual Contributor

More information about this job:

Overview:

MediaMath is a technology platform that brings together all forms of digital
media, massive amounts of data, and sophisticated algorithms to power smarter
marketing for the world?s leading advertisers. Technology like real-time
bidding is revolutionizing marketing and MediaMath is at the cutting edge. Our
platform handles millions of transactions per second and we reach hundreds of
millions of desktop and mobile internet users worldwide. Our engineers develop
complex, innovative, and highly scalable technology that is changing the face
of digital media ? devising new approaches, inventing new products, and opening
up new markets. It?s a very exciting company in a very exciting industry. We?ve
enjoyed massive growth since our founding in 2007, and we?re now a global
company with offices in 20 locations ? but this revolution has just begun!

 

We are currently looking for a Data Scientist Intern to support the ongoing
development of MediaMath?s proprietary algorithms and analytics. This
individual will be a member of the Data Science team, working closely with the
Product & Engineering teams on the conception, design, development, testing,
and deployment of real-world applications of models & data that impact billions
of dollars of marketing spend. From optimizing real-time bidding auctions, to
separating human from non-human web traffic, to building out a global
cross-device graph across billions of users, this individual will have the
opportunity to work on numerous cutting-edge problems and develop scalable,
high-performance solutions to big data problems using state-of-the art
technologies, languages and frameworks.

 


 

Responsibilities:

  * Develop a solid understanding of MediaMath?s business context, key problems
    and issues of importance to the company, and the ways in which data-driven
    models and algorithms can help drive performance and provide insights.
  * Develop a deep understanding of business data-sets through a combination of
    database queries, and exploratory statistical analysis and visualization.
  * Rapidly develop a deep understanding of the quantitative methodologies and
    implementation details behind existing machine learning algorithms in
    place, and the currently-planned roadmap of enhancements.
  * Formulate business needs as data science problems where applicable and
    effectively communicate these to peers, managers, and key stakeholders,
    including the benefits and limitations of models.
  * Design and develop Machine Learning models and algorithms that drive
    performance and provide insights, from prototyping to production
    deployment, across key areas of interest to the company (e.g., bidding
    optimization, messaging optimization, multi-touch attribution, fraud
    detection, device identification, cross-device association)
  * Partner closely with Engineering on the architecture and implementation of
    modeling efforts to ensure performance and scalability
  * Partner closely with Product on the incorporation of new modeling features
    into our product set, including UI & API layers
  * Develop tools and processes to monitor performance of existing models and
    implement enhancements to improve scalability, reliability, and
    performance.
  * Create supporting documentation for algorithms and models.
  * Stay abreast of new developments in Machine Learning and Data Science, and
    investigate & develop new ?challenger? approaches to compete against
    current ?champions?
  * Communicate effectively with other Data Scientists, with Product/
    Engineering, and with business stakeholders across the company to identify
    and define strategic data-intensive projects based on business needs.
  * Take ownership of significant large projects, develop an overall
    architecture and roadmap, and supervise junior Data Scientists or
    Engineers.
  * Act as a subject matter expert on areas of ownership, for both internal and
    external audiences
  * Contribute to MediaMath Data Science thought leadership via publication of
    new-to-the-world research in relevant journals, blog entries, etc.

Qualifications:

  * Studying in a quantitative discipline (e.g., Computer Science, Math,
    Physics, Statistics, Electrical Engineering, or similar)
  * Strong quantitative skills, with solid grasp of key concepts in
    Probability, Statistics, Algorithm design, and Machine Learning.
  * Strong communication skills, and the ability to effectively discuss models
    with other data-scientists as well as business partners at the appropriate
    level of technical detail.
  * Experience developing software, with at least a year in Scala and/or
    Python.
  * Experience with machine learning, predictive modeling, and statistical
    analysis techniques in a business environment.
  * Passion for hands-on "in-the-trenches" work with real-world data-sets.
  * Desirable: Experience with Machine-Learning/Big-Data Platforms and modeling
    frameworks, especially Spark and Hadoop.
  * Desirable: Experience with Statistical modeling and Visualization with R or
    Python

Attributes:

  * Fast learner
  * Analytic thinker
  * Creative problem solver
  * Passion for applying quantitative methods to rea-world problems
  * Highly motivated
  * Collaborative team player
  * Focus on impact and scalability
  * Direct, honest communication style

MediaMath is a global technology company that's leading the movement to
revolutionize traditional marketing and empowering marketers to unleash the
power of goal-based marketing at scale, transparently across the enterprise.
Our platform - TerminalOne Marketing Operating System - handles billions of
transactions every hour and hundreds of millions of internet users every day,
which means every solution must be built to scale. Our breakthroughs create new
marketplaces and solve long-standing problems in an industry that is constantly
evolving. Our engineers are building the leading technology platform to power
the new digital marketing ecosystem, and we are looking for driven, curious
innovators to join our team.  

 

In achieving their duties and responsibilities, MediaMath employees embody the
Math Values of SPACE: Scalable Innovation, Performance, Accountability,
Collaboration, and Empowerment.

 

#LI-VL1

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
#Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

