Elite Research, LLC

Data Analyst- Visualization

  • Lewisville, TX
  • Full-time

Company Description

Elite Research, LLC is posting on behalf of Mental Health Outcomes. Mental
Health Outcomes is the leading company in the design and implementation of
custom outcomes measurement focused solely on behavioral health programs. Our
mission is to support behavioral health care quality for recipients and
providers through clinical outcomes benchmarking. Mental Health Outcomes works
with a large number of freestanding psychiatric hospitals and acute care
hospital programs nationwide. We achieve our mission through providing
processes, data, and analytics/research designed to improve clinical practice
and provide decision makers with the ability to assess the impact of system
changes on outcomes and quality of care.

Job Description

The primary role of this position is to represent quantitative and qualitative
data in an easy to understand visual context for psychiatric hospitals by
combining skills in visual design and analytics. This role requires creativity
to achieve visual communication, a passion for telling a story with data, and
the ability to conduct independent basic statistical analysis. Advanced
knowledge and experience with visualizing “real world” data and an interest in
behavioral health/clinical outcomes are required. Applicants should have a
natural creative edge, an aptitude for analytics, a desire for data-driven
decision making, and interest in improving mental health treatment and
outcomes.

Duties and Responsibilities

Provide support to Senior Analyst and other Analysts on the team in designing
static and interactive data visualizations (infographics, dashboards, custom
reports, and recurring reports) to explain complex topics to non-data
scientists and help them to extract meaning from data. Convert existing
analytic work into effective visualizations. Generate original analytic work
and related visualizations. Interprets business needs and designs
visualizations to meet those needs. Conduct basic statistical analysis.

Qualifications

Minimum Qualifications

  • Bachelor’s degree in a quantitative field such as Statistics, Mathematics,
    Economics, Marketing Analytics, or Data Visualization and 1+ years of
    experience.
  • Strong ability to communicate complex statistical results to non-technical
    audiences with visualizations.
  • Strong knowledge in visual design.
  • Experience conducting basic statistical tests, including but not limited to
    t-tests, Pearson’s correlation, chi-square, and one-way ANOVA.
  • Organizational and problem solving skills, attention to detail, and written
    and oral communication skills.
  • Ability to meet deadlines and work diligently as both part of a team and
    individually.
  • Critical thinking and logical, analytical skills.
  • Expertise in Microsoft Suite products such as Word, PowerPoint, and Excel.
  • Experience using statistical software such as SPSS, SAS, Stata, or R.
  • Other languages: HTML/JAVA

Preferred Qualifications

  • Master’s degree in a quantitative field such as Statistics, Mathematics,
    Economics, Marketing Analytics, or Data Visualization and 3+ years of
    experience.
  • Expertise in visual design.
  • Experience representing data visually.
  • Exposure to nonparametric statistical tests like Spearman’s correlation,
    Mann Whitney U, or Kruskal Wallis.
  • Proficiency in more advanced multivariate statistical models, such as
    MANCOVA, multiple regression, or logistic regression.
  • Experience using statistical and relational database management tools (e.g.
    Python, SQL).
  • Exposure to health care data, specifically mental health and surveys.

Additional Information

Compensation

Mental Health Outcomes strives for a competitive market comparison for salaries
in the Dallas/Fort Worth metro area for employee base pay. Offering health
benefits, vacation/sick benefits, retirement and incentive pay.



I'm interested
I'm interestedRefer a friend

share this job

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  

Powered by 

[104908090]
