This article itemizes the various lists of mathematics topics. Some of these lists link to hundreds of articles; some link only to a few. The template to the right includes links to alphabetical lists of all mathematical articles. This article brings together the same content organized in a manner better suited for browsing.

The purpose of this list is not similar to that of the Mathematics Subject Classification formulated by the American Mathematical Society. Many mathematics journals ask authors of research papers and expository articles to list subject codes from the Mathematics Subject Classification in their papers. The subject codes so listed are used by the two major reviewing databases, Mathematical Reviews and Zentralblatt MATH. This list has some items that would not fit in such a classification, such as list of exponential topics and list of factorial and binomial topics, which may surprise the reader with the diversity of their coverage.

Contents

    1 Areas of basic mathematics
    2 Areas of advanced mathematics
        2.1 Pure mathematics
            2.1.1 Algebra
            2.1.2 Calculus and analysis
            2.1.3 Geometry and topology
            2.1.4 Combinatorics
            2.1.5 Logic
            2.1.6 Number theory
        2.2 Applied mathematics
            2.2.1 Dynamical systems and differential equations
            2.2.2 Mathematical physics
            2.2.3 Computation
            2.2.4 Information theory and signal processing
            2.2.5 Probability and statistics
            2.2.6 Game theory
            2.2.7 Operations research
    3 Methodology
    4 Mathematical statements
    5 General concepts
    6 Mathematical objects
    7 Equations named after people
    8 About mathematics
        8.1 Mathematicians
        8.2 Work of particular mathematicians
    9 Reference tables
        9.1 Integrals
    10 Journals
    11 Meta-lists
    12 Others
    13 Notes
    14 External links and references

Areas of basic mathematics

These lists include topics typically taught in secondary education or in the first year of university.

    Outline of discrete mathematics
    List of calculus topics
    List of geometry topics
        Outline of geometry
        List of trigonometry topics
            Outline of trigonometry
            List of trigonometric identities
    List of topics in logic

Areas of advanced mathematics

See also Areas of mathematics.

As a rough guide this list is divided into pure and applied sections although in reality these branches are overlapping and intertwined.
Pure mathematics
Algebra

Algebra includes the study of algebraic structures, which are sets and operations defined on these sets satisfying certain axioms. The field of algebra is further divided according to which structure is studied; for instance, group theory concerns an algebraic structure called group.

    Outline of algebra
    List of abstract algebra topics
    List of algebraic structures
    List of Boolean algebra topics
    List of category theory topics
    List of commutative algebra topics
    List of homological algebra topics
    List of group theory topics
    List of representation theory topics
    List of linear algebra topics
    List of reciprocity laws
    Glossary of field theory
    Glossary of group theory
    Glossary of linear algebra
    Glossary of ring theory
    List of cohomology theories

Calculus and analysis
Fourier series approximation of square wave in five steps.

Calculus studies the computation of limits, derivatives, and integrals of functions of real numbers, and in particular studies instantaneous rates of change. Analysis evolved from calculus.

    List of complex analysis topics
    List of functional analysis topics
        List of vector spaces in mathematics
    List of integration and measure theory topics
    List of harmonic analysis topics
        List of Fourier analysis topics
    List of multivariable calculus topics
    List of q-analogs
    List of real analysis topics
    List of variational topics
    Glossary of tensor theory
    List of mathematical series
    See also Dynamical systems and differential equations section below.

Geometry and topology
Ford circles—A circle rests upon each fraction in lowest terms. Each touches its neighbors without crossing.

Geometry is initially the study of spatial figures like circles and cubes, though it has been generalized considerably. Topology developed from geometry; it looks at those properties that do not change even when the figures are deformed by stretching and bending, like dimension.

    List of geometry topics
    List of geometric shapes
    List of curves topics
    List of triangle topics
    List of circle topics
        List of topics related to pi
    List of general topology topics
    List of differential geometry topics
    List of algebraic geometry topics
        List of algebraic surfaces
    List of algebraic topology topics
        List of cohomology theories
    List of geometric topology topics
    List of knot theory topics
    List of Lie group topics
    Glossary of differential geometry and topology
    Glossary of general topology
    List of mathematical properties of points
    Glossary of Riemannian and metric geometry
    Glossary of scheme theory

Combinatorics

Combinatorics concerns the study of discrete (and usually finite) objects. Aspects include "counting" the objects satisfying certain criteria (enumerative combinatorics), deciding when the criteria can be met, and constructing and analyzing objects meeting the criteria (as in combinatorial designs and matroid theory), finding "largest", "smallest", or "optimal" objects (extremal combinatorics and combinatorial optimization), and finding algebraic structures these objects may have (algebraic combinatorics).

    Outline of combinatorics
    List of graph theory topics
    Glossary of graph theory

Logic
Venn diagrams are illustrations of set theoretical, mathematical or logical relationships.

Logic is the foundation which underlies mathematical logic and the rest of mathematics. It tries to formalize valid reasoning. In particular, it attempts to define what constitutes a proof.

    List of Boolean algebra topics
    List of first-order theories
    List of large cardinal properties
    List of mathematical logic topics
    Glossary of order theory
    List of set theory topics

Number theory

Number theory studies the natural, or whole, numbers. One of the central concepts in number theory is that of the prime number, and there are many questions about primes that appear simple but whose resolution continues to elude mathematicians.

    List of algebraic number theory topics
    List of number theory topics
    List of recreational number theory topics
    Glossary of arithmetic and Diophantine geometry
    List of prime numbers—not just a table, but a list of various kinds of prime numbers (each with an accompanying table)
    List of zeta functions

Applied mathematics
Dynamical systems and differential equations
Phase portrait of a continuous-time dynamical system, the Van der Pol oscillator.

A differential equation is an equation involving an unknown function and its derivatives.

In a dynamical system, a fixed rule describes the time dependence of a point in a geometrical space. The mathematical models used to describe the swinging of a clock pendulum, the flow of water in a pipe, or the number of fish each spring in a lake are examples of dynamical systems.

    List of dynamical systems and differential equations topics
    List of partial differential equation topics
    List of nonlinear partial differential equations

Mathematical physics

Mathematical physics is concerned with "the application of mathematics to problems in physics and the development of mathematical methods suitable for such applications and for the formulation of physical theories".1

    List of mathematical topics in classical mechanics
    List of mathematical topics in quantum theory
    List of mathematical topics in relativity
    List of string theory topics
    Index of wave articles

Computation
Ray tracing is a process based on computational mathematics.

The fields of mathematics and computing intersect both in computer science, the study of algorithms and data structures, and in scientific computing, the study of algorithmic methods for solving problems in mathematics, science and engineering.

    List of algorithm general topics
    List of computability and complexity topics
    Lists for computational topics in geometry and graphics
        List of combinatorial computational geometry topics
        List of computer graphics and descriptive geometry topics
        List of numerical computational geometry topics
    List of computer vision topics
    List of formal language and literal string topics
    List of numerical analysis topics
    List of terms relating to algorithms and data structures

Information theory and signal processing

Information theory is a branch of applied mathematics and electrical engineering involving the quantification of information. Historically, information theory was developed to find fundamental limits on compressing and reliably communicating data.

Signal processing is the analysis, interpretation, and manipulation of signals. Signals of interest include sound, images, biological signals such as ECG, radar signals, and many others. Processing of such signals includes filtering, storage and reconstruction, separation of information from noise, compression, and feature extraction.

    List of information theory topics
    List of algebraic coding theory topics
    List of cryptography topics

Probability and statistics
The "bell curve"—the probability density function of the normal distribution.
Main article: Lists of statistics topics

Probability theory is the formalization and study of the mathematics of uncertain events or knowledge. The related field of mathematical statistics develops statistical theory with mathematics. Statistics, the science concerned with collecting and analyzing data, is an autonomous discipline (and not a subdiscipline of applied mathematics).

    List of probability topics
    List of stochastic processes topics
    List of probability distributions
    Catalog of articles in probability theory
    List of statistics topics
    Outline of regression analysis

Game theory

Game theory is a branch of mathematics that uses models to study interactions with formalized incentive structures ("games"). It has applications in a variety of fields, including economics, evolutionary biology, political science, social psychology and military strategy.

    Glossary of game theory
    List of games in game theory

Operations research

Operations research is the study and use of mathematical models, statistics and algorithms to aid in decision-making, typically with the goal of improving or optimizing performance of real-world systems.

    List of network theory topics
    List of knapsack problems

Methodology

    List of graphical methods
    List of mathematics-based methods
    List of rules of inference

Mathematical statements

A mathematical statement amounts to a proposition or assertion of some mathematical fact, formula, or construction. Such statements include axioms and the theorems that may be proved from them, conjectures that may be unproven or even unprovable, and also algorithms for computing the answers to questions that can be expressed mathematically.

    List of algorithms
    List of axioms
    List of conjectures
        Erdős conjecture — a list of conjectures by Paul Erdős
    Combinatorial principles
    List of equations
    List of formulae involving pi
    List of mathematical identities
    List of inequalities
    List of lemmas
    List of mathematical proofs
    List of NP-complete problems
    List of statements undecidable in ZFC
    List of undecidable problems
    List of theorems
        List of fundamental theorems

General concepts

    List of convexity topics
    List of dualities
    List of exceptional set concepts
    List of exponential topics
    List of factorial and binomial topics
    List of fractal topics
    List of logarithm topics
    List of numeral system topics
    List of order topics
    List of partition topics
    List of polynomial topics
    List of properties of sets of reals
    List of transforms
    List of permutation topics

Mathematical objects

Among mathematical objects are numbers, functions, sets, a great variety of things called "spaces" of one kind or another, algebraic structures such as rings, groups, or fields, and many other things.

    List of mathematical examples
    List of curves
    List of complex reflection groups
    List of complexity classes
    List of examples in general topology
    List of finite simple groups
    List of Fourier-related transforms
    List of mathematical functions
    List of mathematical knots and links
    List of manifolds
    List of mathematical shapes
    List of matrices
    List of numbers
    List of polygons, polyhedra and polytopes
    List of regular polytopes
    List of simple Lie groups
    List of small groups
    List of special functions and eponyms
    List of algebraic surfaces
    List of surfaces
    Table of Lie groups

Equations named after people

    Scientific equations named after people

About mathematics

    List of mathematical societies
    List of letters used in mathematics and science
    List of mathematics competitions
    List of mathematics history topics
    List of publications in mathematics

Mathematicians
Main article: List of mathematicians

Mathematicians study and research in all the different areas of mathematics. The publication of new discoveries in mathematics continues at an immense rate in hundreds of scientific journals, many of them devoted to mathematics and many devoted to subjects to which mathematics is applied (such as theoretical computer science and theoretical physics).

    List of geometers
    List of logicians
    List of game theorists
    List of mathematicians
    List of mathematical probabilists
    List of statisticians

Work of particular mathematicians
See also: Category:Lists of things named after mathematicians

    List of things named after Niels Henrik Abel
    List of things named after Archimedes
    List of things named after Emil Artin
    List of things named after Thomas Bayes
    List of things named after Élie Cartan
    List of things named after Augustin-Louis Cauchy
    List of things named after Arthur Cayley
    List of things named after Richard Dedekind
    List of things named after Pierre Deligne
    List of things named after Peter Gustav Lejeune Dirichlet
    List of things named after Albert Einstein
    List of things named after Euclid
    List of things named after Leonhard Euler
    List of things named after Paul Erdős
    List of things named after Fibonacci
    List of things named after Ferdinand Georg Frobenius
    List of things named after Carl Friedrich Gauss
    List of things named after Évariste Galois
    List of things named after Jacques Hadamard
    List of things named after Erich Hecke
    List of things named after Charles Hermite
    List of things named after W. V. D. Hodge
    List of things named after Carl Gustav Jacob Jacobi
    List of things named after Felix Klein
    List of things named after Joseph-Louis Lagrange
    List of things named after Pierre-Simon Laplace
    List of things named after Adrien-Marie Legendre
    List of things named after Gottfried Leibniz
    List of things named after John Milnor
    List of things named after Henri Poincaré
    List of things named after Siméon Denis Poisson
    List of things named after Pythagoras
    List of things named after Srinivasa Ramanujan
    List of things named after Bernhard Riemann
    List of things named after Jean-Pierre Serre
    List of things named after James Joseph Sylvester
    List of things named after Alfred Tarski
    List of things named after Karl Weierstrass
    List of things named after André Weil
    List of things named after Hermann Weyl
    List of things named after Ernst Witt
    List of things named after John von Neumann

Reference tables

    List of mathematical reference tables
    List of moments of inertia
    Table of derivatives

Integrals

In calculus, the integral of a function is a generalization of area, mass, volume, sum, and total. The following pages list the integrals of many different functions.

    Lists of integrals
    List of integrals of exponential functions
    List of integrals of hyperbolic functions
    List of integrals of inverse hyperbolic functions
    List of integrals of inverse trigonometric functions
    List of integrals of irrational functions
    List of integrals of logarithmic functions
    List of integrals of rational functions
    List of integrals of trigonometric functions

Journals

    List of mathematics journals
    List of mathematics education journals
    Category:History of science journals
    Category:Philosophy of science literature

Meta-lists

    List of important publications in mathematics
    List of important publications in statistics
    List of mathematical theories
    List of mathematics categories
    Table of mathematical symbols
    Table of logic symbols

Others

    Lists of unsolved problems in mathematics

