Skip Navigation

  • Citigroup.com
  • Alumni
  • Language
      □ English
      □ 简体中文
      □ 繁體中文
      □ Español
      □ Francais du Canada
      □ 日本語
      □ Magyar
      □ Polski
      □ Português
      □ Русский

citi text logo with arcing red top
open main navigation menu

  • Search & Apply
  • Working Here
  • University Programs
  • Resources

abstract light pattern

YOUR JOURNEY WITH CITI BEGINS HERE

Advanced Search

Search Jobs

[                    ]

Category 
[Select                                                                        ]

World Region [Select                         ]

Country [Select                  ]

State/Province [Select                       ]

City [Select                              ]

Search Jobs

Match Your Skills

Let us search jobs for you based on the skills and experience listed in your
LinkedIn™ Profile.

Start Matching

Career Opportunity

Apply Now

Quantitative Analysis, Full Time Analyst (North America)

You're the brains behind our work.
You’re the brains behind our work.
You’re ready to bring your knowledge from the classroom to the boardroom, and
Citi wants to help you get there. Whether it’s honing your skills or building
your network, we know that success can’t come without growth. Our programs
equip you with the knowledge and training you need to play a valuable role on
your team, and establish a long-term career here. At Citi, we value internal
mobility, and career growth is not a question of if, but when. Citi’s
Institutional Clients Group is looking for Full Time Analysts and Associates to
join the Markets and Securities Services: Quantitative Analysis team in NAM.
Quantitative Analysis works with international clients to streamline financial
processes and make transactions seamless. Quantitative Analysis provides
innovative solutions to public sector clients, corporations and financial
institutions in more than 120 countries, including 99 of the Fortune Global 100
companies.

Business Area Description:

The Markets Quantitative Analysis (MQA) and Citi Research & Strategy (CR)
departments play a vital role in the Institutional Clients Group because of the
information they provide and the skills they possess. Our industry-leading
professionals are thought leaders on complex subjects such as portfolio
analysis, security selection, derivative modeling and managing portfolio level
risk. MQA builds tools and models that assist traders and clients in pricing,
hedging, and structuring of securities, and provide critical information and
advice for managing risk across all market trading units. CR provides research
and analysis which is distributed both internally and to our clients. The
integration of quantitative methods with trading has taken on a greater
significance as financial products have become more sophisticated. The rise in
prominence of systematic or algorithmic trading has led to the development of
increasingly sophisticated trading techniques designed to identify market
inefficiencies in every asset class. Your time here will look something like
this...
Your time here will look something like this:
Analyst and Associates can expect to build tools and models that assist traders
and clients in pricing, hedging, and structuring of securities, and provide
critical information and advice for managing risk across all market trading
units. Analysts and Associates can also expect to be involved in research and
analysis that is distributed both internally and to our clients.

By the end of the Analyst Program, participants will have:

* Developed a thorough understanding of financial markets

* Had direct interaction with markets and markets data using programming skills

* Manipulated large-scale analysis of market data

* Honed a quantitative mindset as applied to qualitative market data We provide
you with the knowledge and skills you need to succeed.
We provide you with the knowledge and skills you need to succeed.
We’re committed to teaching you the ropes. Citi’s two-year full-time Analyst
and Associate programs start in June and begin with a six-week training program
in New York City. This is a highly competitive and selective program that gives
recent graduates an introduction to our Fixed Income, Currency, Commodity, and
Equity franchises. Analysts and Associates gain exposure to senior
professionals who will serve as their mentors throughout the two-year process.
At the end of the program, our goal is to ensure that every Analyst and
Associate is placed in a job that best pairs their skill sets and personal
interests with the needs of the firm. We want to hear from you if...
We want to hear from you if…
* You graduated with a GPA of 3.3 or above

* You have obtained a Bachelor’s, Master’s, MBA, or PhD degree

* Obtain strong programming skills Who we think will be a great fit...
Who we think will be a great fit… We’re looking for motivated individuals, who
are eager to start their careers at a global organization, tend to think
globally, and have an innovative outlook on business. We value diversity and so
do you. We’ll also be looking for the following: * Problem solvers who are
intellectually curious * Ability to juggle multiple tasks simultaneously *
Detail-oriented and hardworking individuals who are confident and comfortable
around clients * Have strong statistical knowledge and mathematical abilities
Apply Now

Connect with us

  • Connect with us on Facebook
  • Connect with us on Twitter
  • Connect with us on YouTube
  • Connect with us on LinkedIn
  • Connect with us on Glassdoor

  • Terms of use
  • Careers at Citi Privacy Policy
  • Additional Terms
  • ACCESSIBILITY
  • Sitemap

Citi is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer.
Minority/Female/Veteran/Individuals with Disabilities/Sexual Orientation/Gender
Identity.

Citigroup Inc. and its subsidiaries ("Citi”) invites all qualified interested
applicants to apply for career opportunities. If you are a person with a
disability and need a reasonable accommodation to use our search tools and/or
apply for a career opportunity, please contact us.

To view the "EEO is the Law" poster, click here. To view the EEO is the Law
Supplement, click here.
To view the Pay Transparency Posting, click here.

Follow us:

  • Follow us on RSS
  • Follow us on Facebook
  • Follow us on Twitter
  • Follow us on YouTube
  • Follow us on LinkedIn
  • Follow us on Google+
  • Follow us on Instagram

© 2017 Citigroup Inc.

Quantcast
