Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Dir Advanced Analytics

Dir Advanced Analytics

# Positions 
    1

Status 
    Full-Time

Location 
    US-OR-Portland

Posted Date 
    12/21/2016

Req # 
    15587

More information about this job:

Overview:

If you want to make a positive difference and stand out from the crowd, you’ll
fit in at The Standard (www.standard.com). Through our retirement plans and
insurance products and services, we help people achieve financial well-being
and peace of mind. Come join us and share our passion for serving our customers
in a positively different way.

 

Manages analytical projects to inform the business of trends, competitive
intelligence, and operational insights based on sophisticated analytical tools
and methodologies in support of a function or otherwise designated major
segment of the business. Provides strategic input and thought partnership on
large-scale, highly complex projects/business issues, typically with
significant impact and scope. Proposes tactical direction impacting the
function or business unit. Owns relationship with a defined segment of
business, delivering advanced tools and insights, including on-going monitoring
of metrics and initiatives, to improve business results.

 

Responsible for managing the work environment, identifying workforce needs and
ensuring alignment with corporate manager expectations, values and vision.

 

Responsibilities:

  • Manages advanced analytic projects, data mining and statistical modeling
    operation to identify underlying trends and patters to promote informed
    business decision making. Informs the business of trends, competitive
    intelligence, and operational insights based on sophisticated analytical
    tools and methodologies in support of a function or otherwise designated
    major segment of the business.
  • Manages a team of analysts/scientists and ensures advanced predictive
    analysis to generate business recommendations is conducted. Partners with
    senior management of trends, patterns and recommendations. Provides
    strategic input on and thought partnership on large-scale, highly complex
    projects/business issues, typically with significant scope.
  • Proposes tactical direction impacting the function or SBU or Corporate
    department. Analyze and validate findings, creating reports, presentations
    and visualizations
  • Owns relationship with a defined segment of business, delivering advanced
    tools and insights, including on-going monitoring of metrics and
    initiatives, to improve business results.

Qualifications:

Education: Master's degree in Mathematics, Economics, Statistics or other
quantitative field; Ph.D. helpful given quantitative work overseen.


Experience: Minimum 10 years of relevant experience.

  • Excellent analytical, quantitative and problem solving skills.
  • Expert knowledge of data sources, tools, and business processes, including
    a sophisticated understanding of cross-functional operations and business
    drivers.
  • Expert knowledge of advanced statistical techniques required.

Professional certification required: none          

 

  

Standard Insurance Company, The Standard Life Insurance Company of New York,
Standard Retirement Services, Inc., StanCorp Equities, Inc., StanCorp
Investment Advisers, Inc. and StanCorp Mortgage Investors, LLC, marketed as The
Standard, are Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity employers. All qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
religion, color, sex, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age or any
other condition protected by federal, state or local law. The Standard offers a
drug and alcohol free work environment where possession, manufacture, transfer,
offer, use of or being impaired by an illegal substance while on Standard
property, or in other cases which the company believes might affect operations,
safety or reputation of the company is prohibited. The Standard requires a
criminal background investigation, drug test, employment, education and
licensing verification as a condition of employment. All employees of The
Standard must be bondable.

 

For more information regarding your Equal Employment Opportunity applicant
rights, click  here.

 

Individuals with disabilities who need assistance or accommodation with the
application process should contact HR Direct at 971-321-7871.  This number is
only for the use of individuals with disabilities who need accommodation with
the application process.  General inquiries about application status will not
be addressed.

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
E-mail this job postingRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

