

                                                                      ?     [p]
Home > Search
openings > Search
results > Job
details
 
   # Job details
                  
   [pixel]                                    [pixel]
   [pixel]

  [pixel]
                                  Job 1 of 1
  [pixel]

              Apply to Job(s)   Send to friend   Save to cart   

   [pixel]

   Requisition/   149201BR
   Vacancy No.

   Position Title Data Visualization Specialist

   Job Category   Designer / Drafting / CADD / CAD

   Business Line  Environment

   Country        United States of America

   State/Province USA - North Carolina
   /Region

   City           Charlotte

   Why Choose     AECOM is a premier, fully integrated professional and
   AECOM?         technical services firm positioned to design, build,
                  finance and operate infrastructure assets around the
                  world for public- and private-sector clients. With nearly
                  100,000 employees ? including architects, engineers,
                  designers, planners, scientists and management and
                  construction services professionals ? serving clients in
                  over 150 countries around the world, AECOM is ranked as
                  the #1 engineering design firm by revenue in Engineering
                  News-Record magazine?s annual industry rankings, and has
                  been recognized by Fortune magazine as a World?s Most
                  Admired Company. The firm is a leader in all of the key
                  markets that it serves, including transportation,
                  facilities, environmental, energy, oil and gas, water,
                  high-rise buildings and government. AECOM provides a
                  blend of global reach, local knowledge, innovation and
                  technical excellence in delivering customized and
                  creative solutions that meet the needs of clients?
                  projects. A Fortune 500 firm, AECOM companies, including
                  URS Corporation and Hunt Construction Group, have annual
                  revenue of approximately $19 billion. More information on
                  AECOM and its services can be found at www.aecom.com.

   About the      Environment
   Business Line  Our team of environment specialists offers clients
                  expertise in air quality, impact analysis and permitting,
                  environmental health and safety management consulting/due
                  diligence, remediation consulting/engineering and
                  construction/site restoration, specialty and emerging
                  technologies, waste services and water and natural
                  resources.

   Job Summary    AECOM is actively seeking a highly talented and
                  hardworking Data Visualization Specialist for immediate
                  employment in the Charlotte, NC office.

                  The responsibilities of this position include, but are
                  not limited to:

                    * Support Environmental Operations for 2d and 3D
                      figures, and geodatabase management for various
                      projects
                    * Support data visualization services using Esri mobile
                      and desktop platforms, AutoCad, PhotoShop, Final Cut
                      Pro X, Motion
                    * Work interactively with engineers, scientists and
                      project managers on projects
                    * Ability to work remotely with direct supervisor and
                      project team
                    * Responsible for ensuring safety and compliance for
                      all projects
                    * Assist in the development and implementation of data
                      management plans, workflows, best practices and
                      processes for enterprise GIS and mobile data
                      applications
                  
   Minimum          * Bachelor's degree in Engineering, Geology,
   Requirements       Environmental Science or related degree
                    * 8+ years of general environmental consulting
                      experience, with a strong background in geoscience
                      related projects
                    * Experience with transferring ESRI GIS knowledge and
                      providing GIS Consultation and assessing a variety of
                      related geo spatial programs that can be integrated
                      with GIS
                    * Proficient in desktop Esri platforms, strong
                      knowledge of conceptual site models using 3D Analyst,
                      strong knowledge of video and photo editing using
                      Adobe Photoshop, or similar, and Apple Final Cut Pro
                      X and Motion (or similar).  Strong background in
                      environmental consulting
                    * Due to the nature of this work, U.S. citizenship is
                      required
                  
   Preferred        * GISP, Esri certifications
   Qualifications 

   What We Offer  AECOM is a place where you can put your innovative
                  thinking and business skills into high gear and work
                  alongside other highly intelligent and motivated people.
                  It's a place where you can apply your skills to some of
                  the world's most challenging, interesting, and meaningful
                  projects worldwide. It's a place that values the
                  diversity of our areas of practice and our people. It's
                  what makes AECOM a great place to work and grow.

                  AECOM is an equal opportunity employer and Minorities,
                  Females, Veterans, and Disabled persons are encouraged to
                  apply. For further information, please click here to view
                  the EEO Is The Law poster.

                  NOTICE TO THIRD PARTY AGENCIES:
                  Please note that AECOM does not accept unsolicited
                  resumes from recruiters or employment agencies. In the
                  absence of a signed Recruitment Fee Agreement, AECOM will
                  not consider or agree to payment of any referral
                  compensation or recruiter fee. In the event a recruiter
                  or agency submits a resume or candidate without a
                  previously signed agreement, AECOM explicitly reserves
                  the right to pursue and hire those candidate(s) without
                  any financial obligation to the recruiter or agency. Any
                  unsolicited resumes, including those submitted to hiring
                  managers, are deemed to be the property of AECOM.

              Apply to Job(s)   Send to friend   Save to cart   

                                       
