Hired square
Apply Now

Senior Data Scientist

at Hired (View all jobs)
San Francisco, CA

We?re on a mission to help get everyone a job they love. Find the job you love
here at Hired!

ABOUT US:

At Hired we believe we are entering a new era of work, where people are not
looking for jobs ? they are seeking opportunities. Focusing on in-demand
technology roles, we intelligently match outstanding people to full-time and
freelance opportunities at the world's most innovative companies. By taking the
pain out of the job search, we help people build purpose-driven careers and
businesses find the talent to fulfill their missions. Ultimately, we want to
empower everyone to find and do their best work, from one opportunity to the
next.

Hired is headquartered in San Francisco, with offices in cities across North
America, Europe, Asia and Australia, and plans to expand into new geographies,
industries and job categories. For more information, news and tips for
candidates and employers, visit Hired?s blog.

 

ABOUT THE ROLE:

Hired is looking for a Senior Data Scientist to be the first member of our data
science and relevance team to build new products using machine learning
algorithms.

WHAT WE NEED YOUR HELP WITH:

  * Define key metrics for data science team that have a direct impact on high
    level business metrics
  * Use statistics tools to analyze data to understand and model the
    relationships between different metrics and identify key insights
  * Generate innovative new features using external and internal data sources
    to enhance the recommendation engine and other data science products
  * Strong understanding of all the data in the company and champion data
    collection from all sources
  * Collaborate with Product Managers, Business teams to identify opportunities
    to build data science products
  * Consult with other engineers to help them run and analyze A/B tests
    effectively
  * Have strong understanding of product, business, key KPIs across product and
    business
  * Work with leadership to identify key new product initiatives to drive
    growth

WHAT WE LOOK FOR:

  * 2+ years of experience building products using data science and machine
    learning algorithms
  * Expert level knowledge in SQL and at least one of the advanced stats tools
  * Strong experience in programming languages like Python, Java or similar
    languages
  * Strong experience in statistics, machine learning models and mathematical
    theory
  * Passion for learning new technologies fast
  * MS or PhD in Computer Science or related field

COMP, BENEFITS, & PERKS:

  * Competitive compensation & equity options
  * Open vacation & sick time
  * Flexible work hours
  * Employer paid health insurance, vision, and dental
  * 401(k)
  * Pre-tax commuter benefit
  * Gym reimbursement
  * Weekly educational classes & catered lunch
  * Monthly team events
  * Stocked kitchen & beverages
  * Cell phone reimbursement

We believe that when we can bring our whole selves to work on a day to day
basis when we become happier, more comfortable, more confident and more excited
to do great things for our company, each other, our product and our users.
Hired aims to both build an internal team as well as help our clients build
their teams with talent from all different backgrounds and lifestyles.

At Hired we welcome all applicants regardless of gender identity or expression,
sexual orientation, race, religion, age, national origin, citizenship,
pregnancy status, veteran status, or any other differences.

Apply for this Job
* Required
First Name * [                    ]
Last Name * [                    ]
Email * [                    ]
Phone * [                    ]
Location (City) * [                    ]
Resume/CV *
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
Cover Letter
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LinkedIn Profile
[                    ]
Website
[                    ]
Tell us why you'd be a great fit for this role at Hired.
[                    ]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S. Equal Opportunity Employment Information (Completion is voluntary)

Individuals seeking employment at Hired are considered without regards to race,
color, religion, national origin, age, sex, marital status, ancestry, physical
or mental disability, veteran status, gender identity, or sexual orientation.
You are being given the opportunity to provide the following information in
order to help us comply with federal and state Equal Employment Opportunity/
Affirmative Action record keeping, reporting, and other legal requirements.

Completion of the form is entirely voluntary. Whatever your decision, it will
not be considered in the hiring process or thereafter. Any information that you
do provide will be recorded and maintained in a confidential file.

Gender [Please select           ]
Are you Hispanic/Latino? [Please select           ]
Please identify your race [Please select                            ]
Race & Ethnicity Definitions

If you believe you belong to any of the categories of protected veterans listed
below, please indicate by making the appropriate selection. As a government
contractor subject to Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act
(VEVRAA), we request this information in order to measure the effectiveness of
the outreach and positive recruitment efforts we undertake pursuant to VEVRAA.
Classification of protected categories is as follows:

A "disabled veteran" is one of the following: a veteran of the U.S. military,
ground, naval or air service who is entitled to compensation (or who but for
the receipt of military retired pay would be entitled to compensation) under
laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; or a person who was
discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected
disability.

A "recently separated veteran" means any veteran during the three-year period
beginning on the date of such veteran's discharge or release from active duty
in the U.S. military, ground, naval, or air service.

An "active duty wartime or campaign badge veteran" means a veteran who served
on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service during a war,
or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized
under the laws administered by the Department of Defense.

An "Armed forces service medal veteran" means a veteran who, while serving on
active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service, participated in
a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces service medal was
awarded pursuant to Executive Order 12985.

Veteran Status 
[Please select                                                          ]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Form CC-305

OMB Control Number 1250-0005

Expires 1/31/2017

Voluntary Self-Identification of Disability

Why are you being asked to complete this form?

Because we do business with the government, we must reach out to, hire, and
provide equal opportunity to qualified people with disabilities^1. To help us
measure how well we are doing, we are asking you to tell us if you have a
disability or if you ever had a disability. Completing this form is voluntary,
but we hope that you will choose to fill it out. If you are applying for a job,
any answer you give will be kept private and will not be used against you in
any way.

If you already work for us, your answer will not be used against you in any
way. Because a person may become disabled at any time, we are required to ask
all of our employees to update their information every five years. You may
voluntarily self-identify as having a disability on this form without fear of
any punishment because you did not identify as having a disability earlier.

How do I know if I have a disability?

You are considered to have a disability if you have a physical or mental
impairment or medical condition that substantially limits a major life
activity, or if you have a history or record of such an impairment or medical
condition.

Disabilities include, but are not limited to:

  * Blindness
  * Deafness
  * Cancer
  * Diabetes
  * Epilepsy
  * Autism
  * Cerebral palsy
  * HIV/AIDS
  * Schizophrenia
  * Muscular dystrophy
  * Bipolar disorder
  * Major depression
  * Multiple sclerosis (MS)
  * Missing limbs or partially missing limbs
  * Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
  * Obsessive compulsive disorder
  * Impairments requiring the use of a wheelchair
  * Intellectual disability (previously called mental retardation)

Disability Status [Please select                                            ]
Reasonable Accommodation Notice

Federal law requires employers to provide reasonable accommodation to qualified
individuals with disabilities. Please tell us if you require a reasonable
accommodation to apply for a job or to perform your job. Examples of reasonable
accommodation include making a change to the application process or work
procedures, providing documents in an alternate format, using a sign language
interpreter, or using specialized equipment.

^1Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. For more
information about this form or the equal employment obligations of Federal
contractors, visit the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Federal Contract
Compliance Programs (OFCCP) website at www.dol.gov/ofccp.

PUBLIC BURDEN STATEMENT: According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 no
persons are required to respond to a collection of information unless such
collection displays a valid OMB control number. This survey should take about 5
minutes to complete.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Application consent for Hired

By clicking the ?I Accept? button you expressly make the following
representations and warranties and give your consents as described below:

Hired collects your personal data for the purposes of managing Hired?s
recruitment related activities as well as for organizational planning purposes
globally. Consequently, Hired may use your personal data in relation to the
evaluation and selection of applicants including for example setting up and
conducting interviews and tests, evaluating and assessing the results thereto
and as is otherwise needed in the recruitment processes including the final
recruitment.

Hired does not disclose your personal data to unauthorized third parties.
However, as a global corporation consisting of multiple affiliated companies in
various countries, Hired has international sites and Hired uses resources
located throughout the world. Hired may from time to time also use third
parties to act on Hired?s behalf. You agree to the fact that to the extent
necessary your personal data may be transferred and/or disclosed to any company
within Hired group of companies as well as to third parties acting on Hired?s
behalf, including also transfers to servers and databases outside the country
where you provided Hired with your personal data. Such transfers may include
for example transfers and/or disclosures outside the European Economic Area and
in the United States of America.

[ ]  I Accept
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Submit Application]
Share this job:  
Powered by  Greenhouse Logo
Read our Privacy Policy
