Refresh (0 sec) /careers/jobs/a0I1200000JXeaaEAD/?_fb_noscript=1
Verwijderen
We gebruiken cookies om inhoud en advertenties relevanter te maken en je een
veiligere ervaring te bieden. Als je op de website klikt of op de website
navigeert, ga je ermee akkoord dat we op en buiten Facebook informatie
verzamelen via cookies. Meer informatie, zoals over hoe je je instellingen kunt
aanpassen, vind je hier: cookiebeleid.

Facebook

E-mail of telefoon     Wachtwoord
[                    ] [                    ] [Aanmelden]
                       Account vergeten?
Registreren
*
 
Work at Facebook
 
Teams
 
Locations
 
University Students
 
Benefits
 
Facebook Life
 
Our Community

Data & Analytics

[                    ]
Menlo Park
Data Scientist, Population and Survey Sciences

(Menlo Park, CA)
Facebook's mission is to give people the power to share, and make the world
more open and connected. Through our growing family of apps and services, we're
building a different kind of company that helps billions of people around the
world connect and share what matters most to them. Whether we're creating new
products or helping a small business expand its reach, people at Facebook are
builders at heart. Our global teams are constantly iterating, solving problems,
and working together to make the world more open and accessible. Connecting the
world takes every one of us—and we're just getting started.
We’re looking for data scientists to work on our internal survey, user
feedback, and sentiment measurement systems that empower our users to have a
voice in Facebook’s development every day. As a key member our Population and
Survey Sciences team, you will play a leading role in providing innovative and
methodologically rigorous research across the company to understand user
attitudes and sentiment. With more than a million survey responses daily, your
primary focus will be to differentiate the signal from the noise and provide
teams with the information and insights they need to make better, more informed
product decisions. You will enjoy working with one of the richest data sets in
the world to combine attitudinal and behavioral measures to develop sustainable
solutions to nagging survey-related methods and data problems.

The perfect candidate will have a background in a quantitative or technical
field, will have experience working with large data sets and relational
databases, and will have some experience in data-driven decision making. You
are focused on results, a self-starter, and have superior computational,
analytical and communication skills. This position is based full time in our
Menlo Park, CA office.

Responsibilities

  • Apply your expertise in quantitative analysis and data mining to
    proactively and continuously monitor the overall quantitative user
    sentiment ecosystem.
      □ Exploratory and diagnostic analyses to identify changes to response
        rates, demographic shifts, and changes in user sentiment.
      □ Build key data sets to empower operational and exploratory analyses to
        look for new patterns in user sentiment and relationships with Facebook
        experiences.
      □ Generate and test hypotheses to identify root causes of trend changes.
      □ Partner with Engineering teams to ensure the reliability and
        sustainability of survey data collection on the Facebook platform.
  • Spread best practices for measuring user attitudes and sentiment
      □ Sampling and bias correction
      □ Use of tools and infrastructure
  • Automate analyses, build dashboards and author pipelines via SQL and python
    based ETL framework

Minimum Qualifications

  • 2+ years experience doing quantitative analysis
  • BA/BS in Computer Science, Economics, Math, Physics, Statistics or other
    quantitative field.
  • Experience in SQL or other programming languages or working with relational
    databases
  • Development experience in any scripting language (PHP, Python, Perl, etc.)
  • Understanding of statistics (e.g., hypothesis testing, regressions).
  • Experience manipulating data sets through statistical software (ex. R, SAS)
    or other methods.

Preferred Qualifications

  • Experience with the statistical design and analysis of surveys (e.g.,
    sampling, non-response analysis and bias correction).
  • Experience with distributed computing (Hive/Hadoop).
  • Experience with Natural Language Processing (NLP) or text analysis.
  • Familiarity with survey research methods.

Apply
Facebook is proud to be an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action employer.
We do not discriminate based upon race, religion, color, national origin, sex
(including pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions), sexual
orientation, gender, gender identity, gender expression, transgender status,
sexual stereotypes, age, status as a protected veteran, status as an individual
with a disability, or other applicable legally protected characteristics.
If you need assistance or an accommodation due to a disability, you may contact
us at accommodations-ext@fb.com or you may call us at 1+650-308-7837.
Apply

Please limit to 3 applications.

Other positions in Growth, Engagement, Mobile

  • Growth Marketing Analyst (Social Media Strategy)
    (Menlo Park)
  • Marketing Intelligence Manager
    (Menlo Park)
  • Quantitative Researcher, Growth
    (Menlo Park)

Back to all jobs
Facebook © 2017Nederlands
Over ons
BedrijfsgegevensOnze Facebook-paginaRedactieVacatures
Instructies
HelpcentrumAlgemene informatie over privacyEen pagina makenMaak een advertentie
Ons beleid
gegevensbeleidVoorwaarden en beleidCookies
Meer informatiebronnen
Veiligheidscentrum voor familiesFacebook for BusinessFacebook voor
ontwikkelaars
