[Kayem]

Machine Learning Engineer Internship

Chelsea, MA | Salary | Temporary | Production

  * Apply
  * 
  * View All Jobs

Share This Job

Job Description

Kayem Foods is currently seeking talented students to work with our Machine
Learning and Language Technologies(MLT) Group. As an intern, you will be
working alongside our engineers.

An ideal candidate for this position has a good mix of technical and analytical
skills for software development, as well as a research-oriented background
suitable for developing solutions. We are looking for dedicated, self-motivated
individuals capable of working independently as well as in small teams.Machine
learning methods have become integral and irreplaceable parts of modern
automation. While turning large amounts of data into predictive models can be
tremendously powerful in many contexts, the resulting models (e.g., neural
networks) are often challenging to interpret and verify. This lack of
transparency casts doubt on their utility for mission critical applications or
for easy maintenance. There have been recent efforts to make machine learning
techniques and their predictions more interpretable to the user, for example by
simplifying the model representation or encouraging sparsity of features.
However, the development of these techniques largely focuses on algorithm
accuracy, and the claim of ?interpretability? is often implicitly assumed yet
unverified.

The primary task for this position will be to conduct human-subjects research
to evaluate the interpretability, user trust, and effectiveness of novel
machine learning algorithms. The successful applicant will support the
principal investigators during testing in all phases of research, including
experimental design and setup, subject preparation, data collection, data
management and analysis, and report generation.
 

Skills & Requirements

Requirements

The candidate should be pursuing a graduate degree in computer science,
cognitive science, or a related field.
 

Desired Skills

Candidates should be familiar with machine learning, data analysis and/or
statistics, and be able to program effectively in a high level language (e.g.
MATLAB, Python, C++, Java). Preferred applicants will have an educational
background in cognitive science or a related discipline (e.g., experimental
psychology, human-computer interaction, or human factors engineering), with
experience conducting human-subject research.

Keywords

Machine learning, human-computer interaction, human factors

 

It all started in 1909 when Kazimierz Monkiewicz began making his handmade
sausages in Chelsea, MA. Now over 100 years later, Kayem Foods is a 4th
generation family owned and operated company still headquartered in Chelsea,
MA. Kayem is the largest processed meat company in New England specializing in
natural casing and skinless franks, fully cooked and fresh sausage, dinner hams
and deli meats. The company markets 13 national, regional and local brands
including al fresco all natural, the #1 brand of chicken sausage in the U.S.
and Kayem, the #1 brand of Franks in New England.
 
 
Today, Kayem operates plants with cutting edge technology and stringent USDA,
ISO 9000 & BRC quality standards but we still retain our "Old World" philosophy
and vision. For over a century, Kayem has been owned by the same family,
employing many other families for multi-generations, still in its hometown of
Chelsea and still manufacturing & delivering freshly made convenient, wholesome
and delicious foods to its most valued customers. Some things are too good to
change.

  * Apply
  * 
  * View All Jobs

