Skip to content
Micron Logo

  • Jobs at Micron
  • Featured Jobs
      □ Accounting and Finance Jobs
      □ College and University Graduate Jobs
      □ Engineering Jobs
      □ Internship Opportunities
      □ Manufacturing/Production Operations Jobs
      □ Business, Administrative, Legal and Human Resources Jobs
      □ Procurement and Supply Chain Jobs
      □ Research and Development Jobs
      □ Sales and Marketing Jobs
      □ Solid State Drive Jobs
      □ Information Technology
      □ View All Jobs
  • Location
      □ Jobs in the United States
      □ Jobs in Singapore
      □ Jobs in China
      □ Jobs in Malaysia
  • Not finding a job?
      □ Join Our Talent Community
      □ View All Jobs
  • Micron Global
      □ English
      □ Simplified Chinese
      □ Malay

Search by Keyword [                    ] [Search Jobs]
Email similar jobs to me

Please enable JavaScript to subscribe.

[                    ] [Subscribe] 
Share this Job

IT Data Engineer - Enterprise Data Science Job

Apply now »

  • Apply now Apply now
        Email [                    ] [Start]
      □ Please wait...
        Loading

Date: Dec 24, 2016

Location: Boise, ID, US

Company: Micron

Req Id: 60341 

We’re looking for people who are excellent at data warehousing and want to be
part of a team who is predicting the future with data science. 

 

As a Data Engineer in Micron’s Enterprise Data Science team, you will work
shoulder-to-shoulder with data scientists and business experts to craft
datasets that are rich for mining new data insights.  You will orchestrate data
feeds from many sources, mash them together, engineer new predictive features,
and persist datasets fit for training predictive models.  Qualified applicants
will be well seasoned in a variety of database technologies and have extensive
practice modeling data, querying, and plumbing complex datasets using ETL
tools. 

 

Micron Technology operates in a highly competitive industry where innovation
depends on talented minds extracting fresh insights from an ever-expanding data
universe. We work in a diverse, collaborative environment where problem solving
is a team sport and creative solutions are recognized and rewarded. Does this
sound like the right team for you? Good news - We’re hiring!

 

We're looking for applicants who have:

  • Interest in learning data science topics including predictive modeling and
    machine learning
  • 3+ years of experience data modeling for Data Warehouses
  • 3+ years using ETL tools (Microsoft SSIS, NiFi, Informatica, WhereScape)
  • 3+ years developing with relational databases (MS SQL, Oracle, MySQL)
  • Experience with data visualization tools (Tableau, Business Objects, SSRS)
  • Experience with MPP data platforms (Hadoop, Teradata) a plus
  • Experience with NoSQL databases (HBase, Cassandra) a plus
  • Excellent teamwork, communication, and problem solving skills

 

Education Requirements:

A minimum of a B.S. degree (or equivalent experience) in Statistics, Computer
Science, Business Analytics, or related field

 

We recruit, hire, train, promote, discipline and provide other conditions of
employment without regard to a person's race, color, religion, sex, age,
national origin, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and
expression, pregnancy, veteran’s status, or other classifications protected
under law.  This includes providing reasonable accommodation for team members'
disabilities or religious beliefs and practices.
 
Each manager, supervisor and team member is responsible for carrying out this
policy. The EEO Administrator in Human Resources is responsible for
administration of this policy. The administrator will monitor compliance and is
available to answer any questions on EEO matters.
 
To request assistance with the application process, please contact Micron’s
Human Resources Department at 1-800-336-8918 (or 208-368-4748).
 
Keywords: Boise || Idaho (US-ID) || United States (US) || SGA || Experienced ||
Regular || Information Systems and Technology || *LI-MP1 ||

 


Nearest Major Market: Boise
Nearest Secondary Market: Meridian
Job Segment: Database, Business Intelligence, Data Warehouse, Oracle,
Information Systems, Technology

Apply now »

  • Apply now Apply now
        Email [                    ] [Start]
      □ Please wait...
        Loading

Find similar jobs:
Technology Jobs in Meridian, Technology Jobs in Boise, Engineering Jobs in
Boise, Engineer Jobs in Meridian, Engineer Jobs in Boise
Jobs at Micron micron.com Top Job Searches View All Jobs socialmatcher Manage/
Edit Your Profile Privacy Policy

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY (EEO) STATEMENT

We recruit, hire, train, promote, discipline and provide other conditions of
employment without regard to a person’s to race, religion, color, sex, national
origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression,
pregnancy, veteran's status, ancestry, medical condition (including genetic
characteristics), and marital status or other classifications under the law.
This includes providing reasonable accommodation for team members’ disabilities
or religious beliefs and practices.

Each manager, supervisor and team member is responsible for carrying out this
policy. The Company’s EEO Administrator in the Boise, Idaho Employee Relations
department is responsible for administration of this policy. The administrator
will monitor compliance and is available to answer any questions on EEO
matters.

To request assistance with the application process, please contact Micron's
Human Resources Department at 1-800-336-8918 (or 208-368-4748) or submit Job
Information Request Form.

© Micron Technology, Inc. All Rights Reserved

