Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Reinforcement Learning Research Scientist

Reinforcement Learning Research Scientist

Requisition ID 
    2016-2677

Job Locations 
    US-NC-Cary

Category 
    Research and Development

Visa Sponsorship 
    Yes

Travel Requirements 
    None

Overview

Germany SAS

SAS believes in the whole employee experience. Meaningful work. Empowerment to
make a difference that changes people’s lives. Dynamic work environments that
foster innovation. And an award-winning culture that makes it all possible. We
believe great ideas can come from anywhere. Whether you're a university
recruit, or an experienced professional ready for the next big challenge, SAS
brings perks, passion, and the potential to grow. No limits.

 

 

The Advanced Analytics Division at SAS is looking for a Research Scientist with
a strong analytical background and excellent programming skills to develop
algorithms for the areas of data mining and machine learning, with the focus in
Reinforcement Learning (RL). You will be responsible for designing, developing
and maintaining software involving various techniques such as machine learning,
large scale data mining, and predictive modelling.

 

In this position, you will implement specialized methods in new and existing
SAS procedures for multi-threaded and distributed algorithms. You will stay at
the forefront of machine learning techniques and data mining methodology,
identify appropriate algorithms and methods for implementation in SAS, and
program these methods in C using agile development methods.

 

Duties include researching of statistical methodology and computational
algorithms; designing of software tools for machine learning and data mining;
programming and testing of modules; guiding junior developers in performance of
supporting programming tasks; authoring user documentation and papers to
communicate the best use of the software; presenting to professional audiences
about the product and analytical methods; communicating with other SAS
professional staff in Testing, Technical Support, Education, Marketing, and
other departments; and performing other tasks as assigned.

 

Essential Qualifications :

  • PhD in computer science, statistics, data science, operations research, or
    other related areas
  • Knowledge of distributed programming in MPP environment using MPI and
    multi-threading
  • Experience writing large, complex programs in C or similar programming
    language
  • Background in machine learning and/or data mining
  • Understanding of the Reinforcement Learning problem such as the
    agent-environment interface, the goals and rewards

Additional:

  • Experience mentoring junior developers
  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills
  • Ability to work both independently and as part of a team

Preferences:

  • 3+ years of equivalent experience in the industry
  • Experience developing code in an agile environment
  • Understanding of neural networks is a plus
  • Equivalent combination of education, training, and relevant experience may
    be considered in place of the education requirement stated above.

Additional Information:
SAS is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive
consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, disability status, protected veteran status or any other
characteristic protected by law.

The level of this position will be determined based on the applicant's
education, skills and experience.

Resumes may be considered in the order they are received.

SAS employees performing certain job functions may require access to technology
or software subject to export or import regulations. To comply with these
regulations, SAS may obtain nationality or citizenship information from
applicants for employment. SAS collects this information solely for trade law
compliance purposes and does not use it to discriminate unfairly in the hiring
process.

 

Want to stay up to date on SAS culture, products and jobs? Follow us on
LinkedIn LinkedIn Logo

Options

 
Apply Now!Apply
Share
 
Share with a FriendRefer
Share with your networks
[back]Back to Start/Home Page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

