Tesla Motors

 1. Support
 2. Find Us
 3. My Tesla

 1. Model S
 2. Model X
 3. Supercharger
 4. Updates

Mobile Menu

Careers

<< Back to Search Results

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Staff Data Scientist

Req. ID:                             41498
Office Location:                     NA-US-CA-Palo Alto-Deer Creek-Office
Job Shift:
Job Type:                            Full time
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Description

Role 

Data is deeply embedded in the product and engineering culture at Tesla. We
rely on data –  lots of it – to improve autopilot, to optimize hardware
designs, to proactively detect faults, and to optimize load on the electrical
grid. We collect data from each of our cars, superchargers, and stationary
batteries and use it to make these fleets better and our customers safer.

We're the small but fast-growing team which owns the platform for fleet
time-series data, and the core analysis that needs to be run on that data. Our
stack is used internally by hundreds of engineers, and externally in the form
of customer-facing data services.

We're looking for a talented data scientist to join us as a foundational member
of the team and to provide leadership in all areas that relate to analysis and
data services. Working directly with data engineers and the broader community
of scientists and analysts you'll guide analysis, define and operationalize
data-services, and help inform the future development of our data platform.

You will support, guide, and lead the community, and help Tesla build a
world-class data organization.

 

Responsibilities

Many of your responsibilities will be project-based. Depending on capabilities
of the partner team, the priority of their project, and its computational
requirements, your responsibilities will include (in order of increasing
involvement):

  • providing peer review of analysis and supporting production implementation.
  • guiding the definition of the problem and its solution, with prototypes
    where appropriate.
  • identifying opportunities and driving their solution and implementation.

You will also be responsible for identifying and providing tooling that can
increase productivity of the fleet analytics community such as feature
extraction frameworks and model-predict-control workflows.

Requirements

  • 5+ years experience in Python.
  • 2+ years experience developing and operating high-uptime data services.
  • 5+ years experience in advanced numerical methods.
  • A strong predilection for good software and the processes that make it.
  • Diverse experience modeling physical and behavioral systems.
  • Proven success in the development and maintenance of customer-facing data
    services.
  • Smart but humble, with a bias for action.

Plus

  • Proficiency in Java, C++, C.
  • Experience with Hadoop, HBase, Spark, HPC.
  • Experience manipulating 100's of terrabytes of data.
  • Basic sysadmin capabilities.
  • Experience with physics-based models and electromechanical systems.


[Apply for this Position]                                    [Send to a Friend]


Previous Applicants:
                                       Email: [                    ]
[                    ] [                    ]
                                    Password: [                    ]
[Add to My Jobs]

If you do not remember your password click here.


Back to Search Results

New Search


                                                               Powered By Taleo



Tesla Motors © 2015

