Skip to Main Content
alternate_text_here

Toggle navigation

  • Home
  • Search Jobs
  • Create Account
  • Log In
  • Help

  • About Rice
  • Annual Security Report
  • Houston: It's Cooler Than You Think
  • Take a Virtual Tour of Rice
  • Sustainability@Rice

Senior Development Research Analyst

Bookmark this Posting | Print Preview | Apply for this Job

Posting Details

Position Information

  Job Title   Senior Development Research Analyst
 Department   Development
 Full Time/   Full-Time
  Part Time
 Requisition  S17229
   Number
  Open Date   11/29/2016
 Close Date
   Salary     Salary Commensurate with Experience and Qualifications
 Information
Work Schedule Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.

  Benefits    Yes
  Eligible
Eligible for  No
  Overtime
              As a member of the prospect research team, this position works
              closely with front-line fundraisers to broaden the University’s
              prospect base and to maximize the University’s philanthropic
              capacity, especially collaborating with the University’s programs
              with the highest concentration of prospects with $1 million or
              more in capacity. The Senior Development Research Analyst
              collaborates with a wide variety of regional and school based
              development officers to facilitate elevated engagement of
              prospects whose potential is increasing due to increased capacity
              or inclination.

              The Senior Development Research Analyst uses ethical and creative
              research techniques to provide high-level description and
              analysis on alumni, parents, and friends, and occasionally on
              corporations and foundations, using a wide variety of
  Position    biographical, organizational, and financial sources; analyzes and
   Summary    synthesizes accumulated information to assess financial capacity,
              philanthropic tendencies, giving propensity, and connections to
              Rice University; communicates the results of research and
              analysis to front-line officers and makes recommendations on the
              prospect’s potential philanthropic impact to the University and
              how the prospect fits into the officer’s portfolio; works to
              identify new prospects for Rice University with more than $1
              million in capacity by uncovering them within our current
              prospect base or discovering philanthropists whose interests are
              closely related to the University’s mission. On a regular basis,
              the Senior Development Research Analyst meets with assigned
              front-line fundraisers to discuss the prospects in their
              portfolio and make recommendations on prospects who might be
              ready for solicitation, might be increasing their engagement with
              Rice University, might be ready to be removed from the portfolio,
              or on prospects to add to the portfolio.

  Education   Bachelor's Degree
  Required
Concentration Bachelor’s degree in a discipline requiring the study of research
/ Degree Type techniques and information interpretation.

Substitution  Experience may not be substituted for the education requirement.
for Education
 Requirement
  Education   Master’s degree with emphasis in liberal arts, library science,
  Preferred   or journalism.

 Experience   3 years
  Required
              Proven library, research, and analytical techniques, emphasizing
              the ability to gather, evaluate, and synthesize complex data from
              various sources and present information in a clear and cohesive
              manner.

   Type of    Experience with prospect research resources such as (but not
 Experience   limited to) Lexis-Nexis for Development Professionals, NOZA,
              Hoover’s, Foundation Directory, Guidestar, etc.

              Experience with development databases (e.g. Millennium or
              Blackbaud).

Substitution
     for      Education may not be substituted for the experience requirement.
 Experience
 Requirement
              Experience in identifying high capacity prospects ($5M or more).

              Experience supporting prospect engagement at a high level,
              including working with principal gift team or with development
              officers to prepare research, communications, or analysis in
 Experience   support of Dean’s, the University President’s, or board member’s
  Preferred   engagement of prospects.

              Experience working in collaboration with front-line development
              officers to maximize the potential of their portfolio or to
              develop cultivation or solicitation strategies for prospect
              households.

  License/
Certification
  Required
  License/
Certification
  Preferred
              Ability to work independently and proactively, yet function in a
              collaborative team environment, exhibiting self-reliance,
              dependability, trustworthiness, good listening skills, and an
              ability to form effective working partnerships with colleagues.

              Demonstrated ability to manage multiple projects, competing
              priorities, to solve problems, and to meet challenging and
   Skills     changing deadlines.
  Required
              High degree of professionalism, ethical sensitivity,
              confidentiality, and discretion.

              High level of computer proficiency required. Must have advanced
              working knowledge of the Microsoft Windows environment (Word,
              PowerPoint).

              Knowledge of Houston-area philanthropists, foundations, and
              corporate community.

   Skills     Advanced level of computer proficiency is preferred. Advanced
  Preferred   knowledge of Microsoft Excel (chart creation, pivot tables,
              vlookup, etc.) and Microsoft Access (data joins, data cleaning,
              data mining) is preferred but not required.

              INTERNAL: Frequent contact with senior development staff and
              development officers. Occasional contact with the offices of the
              President and Vice Presidents, faculty members, and librarians.
 Internal /
  External    EXTERNAL: Occasional contact with highly placed alumni volunteers
  Contacts    involved in the process of validating research results.
              Occasional contact with outside research sources (e.g. libraries,
              information specialists, etc.).

  Physical    Extensive daily use of the computer.
   Demands
   Working    Limited travel to attend conferences.
 Conditions
  Security    Yes
  Sensitive
   Special
Instructions
to Applicants
 Quick Link   http://jobs.rice.edu/postings/9176
 for Posting

Job Duties

 Job Duty   PRINCIPAL PROSPECT DISCOVERY
   Name
            - Discover new potential donors to the University, especially those
            who have capacity to give more than $1 million to the university or
            who are in philanthropic or corporate leadership positions and can
            help Rice create a stronger connection to the community. Qualify
Description prospects for their capacity and for potential areas of interest so
of Job Duty that they can be assigned to the portfolio where they are most
            likely to have successful engagement and solicitation. Work within
            the Development and Alumni Relations department in a collaborative
            way to ensure that our most valuable prospects are being engaged
            and cultivated throughout the University.

Percentage  20
  of Time

 Job Duty   PROSPECT MANAGEMENT COLLABORATION
   Name
            - The Senior Development Research Analyst will be assigned to and
            collaborate with Rice University’s Schools / Department / or
            Regions with the highest concentration of prospect potential,
            particularly those with the highest concentration of prospects with
            $1M or larger capacity to give over a five year period. Collaborate
            with principal gifts and major gifts team members to encourage the
            cultivation of our $1M+ prospects to make certain we were moving
            them forward, that the management assignment is always the best for
            the prospects, and that we are promoting people to principal gift
            cultivation appropriately to be building that part of the pyramid.
Description Complete a philanthropic analysis on every prospect researched and
of Job Duty communicate the assessment of the information and its meaning to
            the philanthropic impact the prospect might have at Rice
            University. Collaborate on the development of strategies for
            cultivation and solicitation through analysis of research data.
            Meet regularly with assigned front-line development officers to
            review their portfolio and collaborate on maximizing that
            portfolio’s potential by indicating prospects who are ready for
            solicitation, have increased engagement, have stagnated and should
            be removed from the portfolio, or who are ready to be added to a
            portfolio for new engagement.

Percentage  30
  of Time

 Job Duty   PROSPECT RESEARCH AND ANALYSIS
   Name
            - Research and write profiles on principal gift ($5 million+) and
            major gift donors ($50 thousand+) and other prospects in direct
            response to requests from the University President, the Vice
            President for Development and Alumni Relations, development
            officers, other university professionals, and faculty. Compose
Description documents (profiles, biographies, project summaries) using style,
of Job Duty grammar, and content appropriate to specific audiences. Interpret
            and translate complex financial, legal and corporate language into
            easily comprehensible terms while adhering to University standards
            of discretion and confidentiality. Extract and communicate key
            information which directs cultivation and solicitation strategies

Percentage  35
  of Time

 Job Duty   DATA ENTRY AND RECORDS MAINTENANCE
   Name
            - Maintain prospect biographical and prospect management
            information in Rice University’s advancement database. Organize and
            maintain prospect research information (computer records, digital
            files, etc.) so that it can be systematically retrieved and
Description utilized upon request. Share responsibility with the rest of the
of Job Duty Research team for monitoring outside news sources for updates on
            known major gift and principal gift prospects and for discovery of
            information that will lead to new major gift and principal gift
            prospects. Maintain active awareness of the important news and
            events related to philanthropy.

Percentage  15
  of Time

Applicant Documents

Required Documents

 1. Cover Letter
 2. Resume

Optional Documents

Supplemental Questions

Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*).

 1. * Do you have a bachelor's degree in a discipline requiring the study of
    research techniques and information interpretation?
      □ Yes
      □ No
 2. * Do you have three years of proven library, research, and analytical
    techniques, emphasizing the ability to gather, evaluate, and synthesize
    complex data from various sources and present information in a clear and
    cohesive manner?
      □ Yes
      □ No
 3. * Do you have experience with prospect research resources such as (but not
    limited to) Lexis-Nexis for Development Professionals, NOZA, Hoover's,
    Foundation Directory, Guidestar, etc.? If so, please list which research
    resources you have experience with.

    (Open Ended Question)

 4. * Do you have experience with development databases (e.g. Millennium or
    Blackbaud)? If so, please list the databases you have experience with.

    (Open Ended Question)

6100 Main, Houston, Texas 77005-1892 | Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1892, Houston,
Texas 77251-1892

                               Return to the Top
                                          

                                                        Copyright @ PeopleAdmin

