Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist - Systems Analyst/Prog V

Data Scientist - Systems Analyst/Prog V

Job ID 
    7819

Type 
    Regular Full-Time

Company 
    Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center

Location 
    US-WA-Seattle

More information about this job

Overview

Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center is seeking a senior-level Data Scientist
 to join the Collaborative DataSpace (CDS) group. The primary role of the Data
Scientist is to provide data integration, management, and analysis support to
the CDS project. The Data Scientist develops conceptual data models and uses
information management software and statistical and analytical software
programs (R, SAS, and additional software programs as needed) to access,
integrate, analyze, and annotate study data and results.  The incumbent will
communicate effectively and work collaboratively with colleagues and external
partners.

Responsibilities

The Data Scientist will assemble and extract data from a variety of sources and
transform it into a centralized PostgreSQL database, and will run and maintain
code to export from PostgreSQL to other data structures, as required.  Data
capture will involve programmatically accessing existing data and manual
extraction and interpretation from web interfaces and texts, as well as working
with stakeholders (laboratory scientists, statisticians, project managers, and
data managers) to locate, access, and interpret additional data. The Data
Scientist will also develop new code and reports, create visualizations,
develop data models, document processes, and design and test effective data
capture methods.

 1. Data Modeling and Integration
      □ Work with CDS team, including external software developers and external
        partners, to develop and refine logical and physical data models to
        ensure they support project goals.
      □ Design, develop, and maintain data mappings, data rules, and data
        transformations to populate CDS with source data.
      □ Manage data pipelines using a variety of data management software and
        tools such as R, SQL, Python, and SAS.
      □ Create testing plans for each phase of the development process to
        ensure accuracy and quality of program code as well as thorough data
        validation procedures.
      □ Gather requirements for developing or modifying existing programs and
        systems. Document program functionality and user needs.
      □ Coordinate and lead efforts to standardize work practices across
        studies and networks. Work with the CDS team and SCHARP staff to define
        and implement best practices for integration and harmonization of
        information from different subject areas.
 2. Data Annotation
      □ Work closely with investigators, biostatisticians, and subject matter
        experts to understand definitions, sources, and analysis requirements
        for data pipelines into and out of DataSpace.
      □ Use information management and database design and documentation tools
        to document and communicate database information.
 3. Data Investigation and Visualization
      □ Explore and analyze integrated datasets for trends and novel findings
      □ Create data visualizations of metadata and integrated datasets
      □ Present findings and visualizations to CDS team and external partners
        via both live and online presentations, and blogs
 4. Data Governance
      □ Participate in development of governance policies and processes around
        data use and access.
      □ Work with project sponsors, stakeholders, and team members to ensure
        proper data use and data integrity.
      □ Represent the CDS Data Team on cross-functional group committees.
 5. Provide training and mentoring for CDS Data Team staff.
 6. Perform other responsibilities as required.

Qualifications

Minimum Qualifications: 

  • Four years as a Data Scientist or Systems Analyst/Programmer IV or
    equivalent; or three years as a Systems Analyst/Programmer IV or equivalent
    and a Master's Degree in a computing, mathematical, statistical or a
    related field.
  • Experience with programmatically manipulating data using one or more of the
    following: R, Python, SQL, or SAS.
  • Must be willing to undergo training on software, as needed.
  • Excellent attention to detail and organizational skills.
  • Excellent written and oral communication skills.
  • Ability to effectively work with a team and work independently in a fast
    paced environment.
  • Ability to accurately abstract and summarize information from written
    documents

 

Preferred qualifications:

  • Data management or programming in clinical trials or research environment
  • Familiarity with lab assay and/or immunogenicity data, and/or data
    visualization and statistics
  • Experience using scripting languages for text manipulation and automated
    job control

 

Qualifications considered a plus: 

  • Project management
  • Experience with technical or scientific writing, and/or knowledge of and
    experience in good clinical data management practices

Options

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
Not ready to apply? Connect with us for general consideration.
[back]Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

