Your user session will timeout in 5 minutes. Please click OK to continue with
your application.

8/16/2016

Associate Scientist, Process Modeling and Statistics

Tracking Code
    16-58
Job Description
   
    The Associate Scientist is a highly motivated and results-oriented
    professional with hands-on working experience in statistical data analysis
    and data visualization, process modeling especially glycosylation modeling
    and simulation, and in mammalian cell culture process development. The
    individual will play a critical role in developing and implementing
    statistical tools and software to improve Momenta?s capabilities to analyze
    and visualize the large volume of process and analytical data. The
    incumbent will be responsible for developing and implementing models (e.g.
    glycosylation models) for experimental designs, and will be actively
    involved in cell culture process development and optimization.

    Key Responsibilities:

      + Develop and implement statistical tools and software to improve
        Momenta?s capabilities to analyze and visualize the large volume of
        process and analytical data.
      + Develop and implement mathematical models especially glycosylation
        models for experimental design across multiple FOB programs.
      + Perform literature search to further understand the biological and/or
        chemical pathways from which protein product quality attributes are
        generated.
      + Participate in mammalian cell culture process development and
        optimization.
      + Work closely with internal groups to ensure that corporate objectives
        are met.
      + Ensure technical reports are completed in a timely fashion.
Required Skills
      + Hands-on working experience with statistical data analysis, data
        visualization, and statistical experimental design
      + Direct experience in process modeling and simulation especially in
        protein glycosylation modeling
      + Direct experience in mammalian cell culture process development
      + A strong analytical background
      + Must be highly motivated, have excellent organizational and
        communication skills. Must be able to work independently and as part of
        a multi-disciplinary team and committed to high quality work. Must be
        able to generate detailed written records of the work accomplished in a
        timely manner.

     

Required Experience
      + Ph.D. in a scientific discipline (Chemical/Biochemical Engineering,
        Biochemistry, Statistics or related field) with 0-2 years or MS with 5+
        years of relevant experience in the pharmaceutical /biotechnology
        industries.
Job Location
    Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States
Position Type
    Full-Time/Regular

Apply

[New Resume/CV]

[Existing Resume/CV]

Share

Return To Job Listings 


