Weight Wather

Data Engineer

Engineering New York, New York

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Apply

Description

Uniquely positioned to lead the way in the exciting HealthTech industry, Weight
Watchers is rebuilding most of our core experiences and embracing modern
engineering practices and techniques.

Collecting data from many unique sources we are strongly positioned to derive
deep knowledge on our member?s behaviors. Using this data we can provide
improved & personalized experiences for users as well as providing insights to
the executive team that will drive the evolution of our company.

As we rebuild many of our core experiences, we are seeking talented people who
are excited to join our team. This is a rare opportunity to join a company
embracing a modern Technology culture, where you will have the ability to
improve people?s lives in a very meaningful way and have a major impact on
Weight Watchers offerings to our members. As reliance on health and wellness
awareness increases, you can be part of the team that is leading the way.

To help us achieve our goals, we are seeking Data Engineers to join our team. 

What you will do: 

  * Work closely with our data scientists to help build complex algorithms that
    provide unique insights into our data.
  * Build data pipelines that clean, transform and aggregate data from many
    different sources.
  * Develop models that can be used to make predictions.
  * Build complex functions that answer questions for the business.
  * Model data at rest and enable powerful data analysis.
  * Enable machine learning, natural language processing and other data science
    methods within Weight Watchers.
  * Work with engineers across the organization to identify data quality issues
    in source systems and help keep the data clean!
  * Provide solutions that help share data with the enterprise.
  * Be an advocate for best practices and continued learning. 

You should have:

  * Experience using tools such as Spark & Hadoop.
  * Experience with data stores such as Redshift, Cassandra and Mongo.
  * Large scale Data Modeling from a Big Data perspective.
  * Experience producing and consuming event driven data.
  * Experience working in a data team building functions, models and complex
    algorithms.
  * Experience with real time streaming solutions such as Kinesis or Kafka.
  * Experience building data pipelines.
  * Experience programming in Python, Scala or Java.

We hire only the best people. Here are the benefits to being top-notch: 

The opportunity to work with some of the best innovators in the industry
Generous healthcare coverage.
401(K) with company match.
Paid Time Off
Paid parental leave
Tuition reimbursement
Wellness allowance
Profit Sharing
Plus, the resources to locate services including child care, legal services,
pet care and more


Weight Watchers is an equal opportunity employer. Weight Watchers does not
discriminate on the basis of sex, race, color, creed, national origin, marital
status, age, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression,
veteran status, or disability.


 

Apply Apply Later
? Back to Current Openings
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Share

LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Email
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Similar Jobs

{{ job.title }}

Powered by Jobvite

