Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Analytical Scientist

Analytical Scientist

Job ID 
    2017-4495

# Positions 
    1

Location 
    US-IA-Des Moines

Posted Date 
    1/9/2017

Category 
    Research & Development

Position Type 
    Regular Full-Time

More information about this job:

Overview:

The Company

Kemin Industries Inc. is a global company headquartered in Des Moines, Iowa,
USA. Kemin (www.kemin.com) provides “inspired molecular solutions” specifically
developed to provide nutrition and health benefits for humans and animals.
Committed to feed and food safety, Kemin maintains top-of-the-line
manufacturing facilities where approximately 500 specialty ingredients are made
for the global feed and food industries as well as the health, nutrition and
beauty markets. A privately held, family-owned and operated company, Kemin has
nearly 2,000 employees and operates in 90 countries with manufacturing
facilities in Belgium, Brazil, China, India, Italy, Singapore, South Africa and
the United States.

The Position

The incumbent is responsible for the execution of innovative research projects
to support the development of new products and improving existing products for
the livestock feed industry. 

Responsibilities:

  • Conduct efficient analytical development including method development,
    validation, and transfer in support of KANA R&D, QC, and operations.
  • Provide special analytical support for KANA R&D, QC, and operations.
  • Identify unknown compounds in natural product and raw materials.
  • Focus and prioritize activities of assigned projects and assume
    responsibility for their success.
  • Lead projects in compliance with the Product Innovation Process.
  • Work closely with other R&D Scientists to ensure that new technologies
    and processes are developed in an efficient and timely fashion.
  • Actively participate in identifying research areas that could lead to
    the development of new products and support the sales of existing products.
  • Interact with customers, field sales, technical service, operations, and
    product managers to address technical questions and provide alternatives.
  • Write research proposals as part of the Product Innovation Process.
  • Write and review various documents, for both internal and external
    publication as appropriate to positively affect the direction of the R&
    D Department.
  • Other responsibilities as assigned.

Qualifications:

  • Ph.D. in analytical chemistry or comparable discipline and experiences.
  • 2 to 5 years (Ph.D.) or 5 to10 years (M.S.) experience in technology
    development, process research, and product development demonstrated with
    successful launch of products or methods.
  • Experience  as an effective project team player, leader, and motivator.
  • Experience in the areas of protein, fat, and carbohydrate non-starch
    polysaccharides chemistry.
  • Hands on experiences of analytical methods development and validation.
  • Strong analytical chemistry background with hands-on experience on
    various analytical techniques such as HPLC, GC, GC/MS, LC-MS, LC/MS/MS,
    NMR, and NIR techniques is preferred.
  • Comprehensive background and expertise in chemical processes,
    biotechnology, and chemical-biological applications.
  • Detail oriented, highly organized, and motivated by accomplishment
  • Practical knowledge of stage-gate processes and pilot scale procedures is
    desired.
  • Excellent written and oral communication skills.

 

SKILLS REQUIRED:

  • Strong written and oral communication skills, including the ability to
    present ideas effectively with all levels of management within a team
    environment.
  • Strong experimental design and problem solving skills.
  • Project management skills, including project planning, project execution
    and development of project timelines.
  • Advanced computer knowledge in document preparation, data analysis, and
    spreadsheet applications.
  • Desire and ability to work in a changing and challenging environment.
  • Strong analytical chemistry background and skills.
  • Understanding and desire to learn about the animal feed industry.

 

 

Decision Making & Freedom to Act:  Kemin believes in allowing its employees the
freedom to make decisions and action them in accordance with their ability and
level of reporting. 

 

Working Conditions:  The Analytical Scientist role is based at Kemin Industries
headquarters in Des Moines, Iowa.  The position is considered 40 hours per
week, but requires flexibility.

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

