Apply Now

Data Scientist

at Grammarly (View all jobs)
San Francisco

Summary

Grammarly is not your typical start-up. We are nimble, fast-paced, and gritty,
in true start-up fashion. But we?re also bootstrapped and profitable, and we
have the discipline, focus, and resources that one doesn?t typically find in a
young, growing company. And, oh yeah, we should mention that our products are
absolutely killing it right now (check out our Chrome Store listing for social
proof). 

Our vision is to reach all 2+ billion English writers around the world. We?re
not there yet, but we?re growing fast. As our growth has accelerated, so has
the amount of data! We need a hands-on data scientist who is excited to work
with large data sets and find actionable insights. You will have broad impact
and exposure across Grammarly, working with team members from our product,
research, marketing, engineering, and finance teams.

At Grammarly, we?ve built a strong culture with highly engaged, highly
motivated team members, and we believe that this has been key to our success.
We hire exceptional people and reward them with trust, autonomy, mentorship,
and the freedom to grow into their roles. We?re a passionate, growing team
(100+ and counting) based in San Francisco, New York, and Kyiv, and our mission
is to improve lives by improving communication. If you?re up for the challenge,
we would love to meet you!

What You Will Accomplish

  * Consolidate data from different sources and develop key metrics and
    indicators for user acquisition, engagement, and retention.
  * Analyze the impact of product and marketing experiments on key metrics and
    help teams make better decisions. You will become the point person for A/B
    testing and work with product, marketing, and engineering teams to develop
    hypotheses, configure tests, and measure results. Testing and iterating is
    a key element of our product development strategy ? you will be at the
    center of it.
  * Analyze user behavior and feature usage across Grammarly?s products. Find
    patterns and make suggestions to improve user experience and acquisition
    (e.g., discover which users are most likely to refer Grammarly to a
    friend).
  * Build and publish self-serve dashboards so all functions at Grammarly have
    access to the most relevant metrics and can make the best decisions.
  * Collaborate with the data engineering team to expand data coverage, compute
    new metrics, and continually improve the quality of data collection and
    analysis.
  * Advocate and champion data-driven approaches across the organization. You
    will accomplish this through presentations, in one-on-one discussions, and
    above all else, by providing excellent data services to the different
    teams. Your goal is to empower each and every Grammarly team member to make
    data-driven decisions.

Desired Skills and Experience

  * Experience in data analysis, A/B testing, retention tracking, etc. Consumer
    product experience preferred.
  * BA or BS Degree in statistics, math, engineering, or an equivalent
    combination of education and experience.
  * Proficient in data mining and statistical theories, principles, and
    practices.
  * Experience with web analytics and tracking, such as Google Analytics and
    Mixpanel.
  * Experience with SQL, NoSQL, and scripting/programming languages.
  * Strong analytical and critical thinking skills and a strong bias toward
    actionable insights; love of finding insights and getting others to act on
    them.
  * Self-starter with superior organizational and prioritization skills,
    providing the ability to drive multiple tasks to successful, on-time
    completion.
  * Even if you do not have the required experience, but do have a quantitative
    background and strong interest in data analysis and consumer Internet
    products, please contact us. We love talented and passionate applicants!

Benefits

  * 401(k), Medical, Dental, Vision
  * Subsidized commuting benefits
  * Health and wellness benefits
  * We are located in beautiful downtown San Francisco, blocks away from BART

About Grammarly

Built by linguists and language lovers, Grammarly?s writing app finds and
corrects hundreds of complex writing errors ? so you don?t have to. Millions of
users worldwide trust Grammarly?s free and premium products, which are also
licensed by more than 600 leading universities and corporations. Grammarly is
an Inc. 500 company with offices in San Francisco and Kyiv.

Apply for this Job
* Required
(Optional)
Almost there! Review your information then click 'Submit Application' to apply.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
First Name * [                    ]
Last Name * [                    ]
Email * [                    ]
Phone [                    ]
Resume/CV
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
Cover Letter
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Do you need visa sponsorship now or in the future?
[                    ]
LinkedIn Profile
[                    ]
How did you hear about this job?
[                    ]
Website
[                    ]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Submit Application]
Share this job:  
Powered by  Greenhouse Logo
Read our Privacy Policy
