-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Data Scientist (MACSM)

Minimum Education:                       HS Graduate or Equivalent
Clearance Level:                         Top Secret - SCI
ID:                                      2036
Location:                                Missouri, St Louis
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Description

The Celestar Corporation has an IMMEDIATE NEED to identify a DATA SCIENTIST for
an upcoming contract re-compete. Please review the position description below.
If interested and qualified, we welcome you to apply for this challenging
opportunity.

CLEARANCE REQUIREMENT: Active Top Secret Level Clearance with SCI Access;
Clearance, Access and Investigation must appear in JPAS and be within scope (5
? Years)

ATTENTION INCUMBENT CANDIDATES
Don?t Limit Yourself to One Company ? Keep Your Options Open!
Your Expressed Interest will be kept in the Strictest of Confidence!

PROPOSAL SUBMISSION DATE:   21 December 2015
ANTICIPATED AWARD DATE:        November/December 2016
ANTICIPATED START DATE:          December 2016/January 2017

SCOPE OF WORK
The largest agency directorate and supporter of GEOINT Full Time Equivalents
(FTEs) is the Analysis Directorate.  This directorate assists in providing
timely, relevant, accurate GEOINT analysis, data, and services to customers in
support of the national security.  The Analysis Directorate does so by
producing products and technical support that serves the constantly growing
national and international demand for imagery and geospatial
applications?mapping, navigation, environmental monitoring, urban planning,
resource management, homeland defense, national security, and emergency
preparedness.  

The second largest agency directorate and user of GEOINT FTEs is the Source
Operations and Management Directorate.  The Source Directorate provides the
ability to register and adjudicate GEOINT users needs, develop strategies to
acquire or produce all GEOINT sources, and manage/monitor the delivery of all
GEOINT sources to those creating actionable intelligence.  This mission is
accomplished through identifying existing source material in agency holdings or
accessible from our GEOINT partners worldwide, gathering existing geospatial
data and imagery from our US and foreign production partners, and creating
products and data giving the select agency the ability to ?Know the Earth ...
Show the Way?.  The Source Directorate is responsible for national satellite
imagery, commercial and airborne imagery and GEOINT foundation data--including
elevation, feature, and gravity data.  Source data is any resource that
contributes to the creation of GEOINT and encompasses imagery, mapping, and any
data describing the Earth?s natural and manmade features, as well as activities
that can be referenced.

RESPONSIBILITIES

Apprentice

  * Identify and evaluate standardized methods, models and algorithms to
    address intelligence problems of limited scale and as directed.
  * Provide informal documentation for methods and algorithms use in data
    science solutions.

Journeyman

  * Conceive and prepare thorough, well-articulated tactical or strategic data
    science products (e.g. technical articles, visualizations, graphics, and
    intelligence reports) that summarize the methods and results of data
    science solutions.
  * Design a range of research projects, data collection and methodologies
  * Identify, retrieve, manipulate, relate and/or exploit multiple structured
    data sets from various sources.
  * Identify problems to which data science can be applied and initiate
    appropriate solutions.

Senior

  * Determine the most appropriate research projects, data collection and
    methodologies.
  * Identify, retrieve, manipulate, relate and/or exploit multiple structured
    and unstructured data sets from various sources, including building or
    generating new data sets as appropriate.
  * Interpret and evaluate the results of data science community?s methods
    models and/or algorithms, understanding the meaning, limitations and scope
    of results, translating into insightful output data science and/or mission
    and identifying other applications for use.
  * Initiate the efficient implementation of methods, tools, algorithms,
    including preliminary data exploration, data visualization and preparation,
    model calibration, specification or estimation: and algorithm validation
    and verification using a comprehensive range of technologies (e.g. software
    packages, programming languages, computational environments).  
  * Educate managers, senior internal officers and the Intelligence Community
    (IC) thought mediums such as presentations, documentation and discussions.
  * Lead work unit proactively addressing and responding to the most difficult
    data science-related challenges in a timely manner wile effectively
    balancing competing priorities.  
  * Coordinate subtasks for successful project task and integration.

Expert

  * Identify and effectively evaluate an extensive range of methods, models and
    algorithms and design novel solutions for complex mission-driven problems
    of high importance without existing applied or theoretical solutions in
    both familiar and unfamiliar domains.
  * Determine the most appropriate research design for challenging data
    collection and research projects.
  * Initiate and lead the efficient implementation and/or productization of
    methods, tools, algorithms; exploit the unique values of an extensive range
    of technologies (e.g. software packages, programming languages,
    computational environments).  
  * Identify collection opportunities that enhance organizational holdings and
    minimize gaps or lead implementation of novel strategies to enable
    exploitation or further refinement of complex structured and unstructured
    data sets. 
  * Interpret and evaluate the results of data science community?s methods,
    models and/or algorithms, understanding the meaning, limitations and scope
    of results.  Translate into insightful output for data science and/or
    mission and identifying other applications for multiple uses across a wide
    variety of mission domains.
  * Drive data science tradecraft within IC (e.g. course design,
    executive-level briefings).  
  * Educate leaders through presentations, documentation for discussions.

REQUIREMENTS

Apprentice

  * High School Diploma with 1-3 Years experience
  * General knowledge of the Intelligence Community (IC)
  * Familiarity with Microsoft Office (Outlook, Word, Excel, Access,
    PowerPoint)
  * Must be able to demonstrate good oral and written communication skills. 
  * Ability to work independently with minimal or no oversight.
  * Active Top Secret Level Clearance with SCI Access; Clearance, Access and
    Investigation must appear in JPAS and be within scope (5 ? Years)

Journeyman

  * High School Diploma with 3-10 Years experience; A Bachelor Degree in a
    related field may count for up to four years of this experience
  * General knowledge of the Intelligence Community (IC)
  * Familiarity with Microsoft Office (Outlook, Word, Excell, Access,
    PowerPoint)
  * Must be able to demonstrate good oral and written communication skills. 
  * Ability to work independently with minimal or no oversight.
  * Active Top Secret Level Clearance with SCI Access; Clearance, Access and
    Investigation must appear in JPAS and be within scope (5 ? Years)

Senior

  * High School Diploma with 10-20 Years experience; A Bachelor Degree in a
    related field may count for up to four years of this experience ? A
    Master?s Degree in a related field may count for up to two additional years
    of this experience
  * Proven ability to work independently with no oversight
  * Demonstrated strong writing and briefing skills consistent with
    national-level performance
  * Ability to provide advice on processes, procedures, technology, and items
    of interest.
  * Ability to lead collaboration in the performance of services
  * Active Top Secret Level Clearance with SCI Access; Clearance, Access and
    Investigation must appear in JPAS and be within scope (5 ? Years)

Expert

  * High School Diploma with 20+ Years experience; A Bachelor Degree in a
    related field may count for up to four years of this experience ? A
    Master?s Degree in a related field may count for up to two additional years
    of this experience ? A Doctorate Degree in a related field may count up to
    three years of this experience
  * Demonstrated strong writing and briefing skills consistent with
    national-level performance
  * Ability to provide senior level advice to senior leadership and at
    directorate level.
  * Active Top Secret Level Clearance with SCI Access; Clearance, Access and
    Investigation must appear in JPAS and be within scope (5 ? Years)

Come onboard with a company that Values its Employees!
Celestar, a Veteran Owned Company, is Very Competitive with Salaries and
Benefits. As an example, we offer Company Paid Benefits that include Employee
and Family Dental Insurance, Employee Health Insurance, Life Insurance and
Short Term Disability Insurance. We also offer a 401k retirement company match,
paid Holidays and Personal Time Off!

__ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __

Minimum physical demands for on task positions: Employee needs to be able to
sit at a workstation for extended periods; use hand(s) to handle or feel
objects, tools, or controls; reach with hands and arms; talk and hear. Most
positions require ability to work on desktop or laptop computer for extended
periods of time reading, reviewing/analyzing information, and providing
recommendations, summaries and/or reports in written format. Must be able to
effectively communicate with others verbally and in writing. Employee may be
required to occasionally lift and/or move moderate amounts of weight, typically
less than 20 pounds. Regular and predictable attendance is essential.
Team Members on Task (CONUS only, minimal or no job-related travel):
? Work Environment: The noise level in the work environment is usually
moderate.
? Office Type Environment with Temperature Control. May be exposed to chemicals
related to office equipment. The noise level in the work environment is usually
moderate. General office environment.
Team Members on task (CONUS and OCONUS assignments, some travel):
? Specific vision abilities required by the job may include close vision,
distance vision, color vision, peripheral vision, depth perception, and the
ability to adjust focus.
? Team Members deployed to a combat zone must be physically able to live in
austere conditions during off duty time that may include extremes in
temperature, noise, and must not have any medical conditions that require
access to uninterrupted power sources.
? Team Members deployed to a combat zone will be subject to hazardous
conditions which may require them to wear a kevlar helmet, individual body
armor and/or wear a gas mask for extended periods of time.

PAY TRANSPARENCY POLICY STATEMENT
The contractor will not discharge or in any other manner discriminate against
employees or applicants because they have inquired about, discussed, or
disclosed their own pay or the pay of another employee or applicant. However,
employees who have access to the compensation information of other employees or
applicants as a part of their essential job functions cannot disclose the pay
of other employees or applicants to individuals who do not otherwise have
access to compensation information, unless the disclosure is (a) in response to
a formal complaint or charge, (b) in furtherance of an investigation,
proceeding, hearing, or action, including an investigation conducted by the
employer, or (c) consistent with the contractor?s legal duty to furnish
information.

Celestar is an Equal Employment Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer that is
committed to providing equal opportunity for all applicants or employees on the
basis of their race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national
origin, age, religion, veteran status, disability, or any other characteristic
protected by law.

If you should have difficulty accessing our online application, please call us
during normal working hours for immediate assistance @ (813)-627-9069


[Apply for this Position]                                    [Send to a Friend]

<< Back to Search Results

New Search

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Are you a returning applicant?


Previous Applicants:
                                       Email: [                    ]
[                    ] [                    ]
                                    Password: [                    ]
[Add to My Jobs]

If you do not remember your password click here.



                                                               Powered By Taleo



