  • Ripley's Believe It or Not!
  • Ripley Attractions
  • Ripley Entertainment Inc
  • Ripley Publishing

Ripley's Believe It Or Not!

Believe It or Not!

Browse Open Jobs Search Open Jobs Edit Your Profile View Submitted Applications

Job Details


Post Date             11/23/2016
Title                 Data Scientist/Statistical Analyst
City                  Orlando
State                 FL
Description           Ripley Entertainment Inc. is the world’s #1 small
                      attractions company, continuing to grow in popularity and
                      brand recognition, with more than 14 million visitors to
                      over 95 attractions in 10 countries. Built on a
                      foundation of a tiny daily newspaper cartoon, which
                      debuted in 1918, the company now appeals to families and
                      people of all ages with entertainment attractions around
                      the world. The company also has a long successful history
                      in book publishing, product licensing, radio and
                      television. Ripley’s is a proud part of the Jim Pattison
                      Group, Canada’s second largest private company with sales
                      of $9.1 billion and over 41,000 employees. More
                      information on our company can be found at
                      www.ripleys.com or www.jimpattison.com.

                      The Data Scientist/Statistical Analyst is a newly created
                      position at the company and is a fantastic opportunity
                      for an individual that wants to fill an important role in
                      a growing, global entertainment company. This position is
                      part of the business development team at the corporate
                      office and reports directly to the Chief Financial
                      Officer.

                      In this role, the data scientist/statistical analyst will
                      build statistical models (using established mathematical/
                      statistical methodologies) to accurately forecast market
                      demand and revenues in different markets around the
                      world, based on market size, demographics, pricing,
                      seasonality, etc. The modelling will be performed with
                      data from both internal and external sources. The results
                      and recommendations from the modelling will be used by
                      the business development group for strategy and planning.
                      The ideal candidate must be passionate about analyzing
                      data and models, and curious about incorporating new
                      technology and data sources to improve the accuracy of
                      the model. The candidate will use a wide range of
                      statistical techniques to analyze data and interpret
                      results into business recommendations, and collaborate
                      with subject matter experts to select the necessary
                      internal and external sources of information.
Requirements          Requirements

                      • Undergraduate degree in relevant field (Statistics,
                      Mathematics, Economics)
                      • 5+ years related work experience.
                      • Advanced use of Excel and excellent ability to
                      understand and work with numbers
                      • Experience with statistical analysis and a solid
                      understanding of relevant statistical measures.
                      • Knowledge of relevant products and analytical tools and
                      methods, including a working knowledge of existing
                      platforms, tools, and packaged applications as well as
                      future data management tool possibilities.
                      • Must have impeccable integrity and work ethic; be
                      self-motivated and take the initiative.
                      • Excellent, proven interpersonal, verbal and written
                      communications skills.
                      • Must be passionate about the Ripley brand, the
                      attractions industry, family fun and entertainment!
                      Apply On-line
                      Send This Job to a Friend


  • Home
  • Ripley Attractions Around the World
  • The World of Ripley’s Believe It or Not!
  • Ripley Entertainment Inc


  • 7576 Kingspointe Pkwy, Suite 188, Orlando, FL 32819
  • Phone: (407) 345-8010
  • Email: webmaster@ripleys.com

  • Copyright © Ripley Entertainment Inc. All Rights Reserved
  • Privacy Policy
  • Terms of Use

Ripley Entertainment, Inc.
