JavaScript is turned off in your web browser. Turn it on to take full advantage
of this site, then refresh the page.

Loading...
Skip to Main Content

Career Opportunities: Cognitive Data Scientist (18701)

Reference Code 18701 - Posted 28/12/2016 - United States - USA - Armonk - 
Functional Area (1) - Regular Full-Time Employee
?  Job Description Print Preview
Apply Save Job Return to List

 

[AM_OPS_GRO]

?Cognitive Data Scientist

USA - Armonk 

Corporate Title: Vice President

Division: CCI-Information Technology (50001542)

Department: CCIX-Shared Information Service (50012397) 

Recruiter: Danielle P Sullivan  

 

About Swiss Re

This is your opportunity to join Swiss Re Group - one of the world's leading
wholesale providers of reinsurance, insurance and other innovative forms of
insurance-based risk transfer. Our business at Swiss Re is about understanding
and analysing the major risks that concern the world - from natural
catastrophes to climate change, from ageing populations to cybercrime. We
combine experience with expertise and innovative thinking to create new
opportunities and solutions for our clients. And we enable the risk-taking
essential to enterprise and progress. This is only possible with around 10,000
truly exceptional Swiss Re people across our group worldwide.

 

About the role

To extend the existing Center of Competence in Cognitive Computing we are
seeking a Cognitive Data Scientist who will contribute in accelerating the
deployment and improvement of Cognitive Services in tight cooperation with
peers, internal experts and business clients.

In particular, the role will involve:
? Generating business insights using advanced Cognitive Computing, Artificial
Intelligence, classical Machine Learning and Deep Learning methods to answer
business problems in different (Re-) Insurance domains.
? Ability to fast prototype ideas and provide a substantial contribution to the
design and development of productive solutions to move towards data-driven
innovation in alignment with business priorities and key targets.
? Driving enhancements of existing cognitive products and services to improve
business value and service quality according to business needs and industry
best practices.
The ideal candidate has a deep background in one or a combination of the
following domains: artificial intelligence, machine learning, computer vision,
computer science/engineering, deep neural networks, computational linguistics,
image processing, text mining, natural language processing.

Key Tasks
? Apply analytical cognitive methods and implement advanced algorithms to build
data products that streamline the process from data collection to insight
generation
? Validate, interpret and present data findings to both an expert and
non-expert audience in tight collaboration with analytics consultants
? Stay up-to-date with advanced research results in the field, open source
software, promising startups technologies and being able to make quick
evaluation of new tools for integration in existing/new solutions
? Contribute in an agile team of data scientists to develop and deploy
data-driven solutions for various Insurance and Reinsurance business problems
(i.e., ad-hoc analysis request as well as business projects).
? Foster new data-driven approaches to generate business insight in order to
address unanswered business problems in a proactive way.
? Build-up sustainable relationship with key business and IT stakeholders to
become a trusted partner for the field of Cognitive Computing, Artificial
Intelligence and Machine Learning.

 

About the team

The Swiss Re Center of Competence (CoC) in Cognitive Computing has the mandate
to explore cognitive technologies, build internal capabilities and trace the
path towards impactful and innovative cognitive solutions. Given the large
amount and complexity of information in documental form, we are strongly
interested in the application of advanced Cognitive Computing, Artificial
Intelligence, classical Machine Learning, Deep Learning and Natural Language
Processing technologies to solve problems in the fields of information
retrieval, document classification, text summarization, image processing among
the others.

 

About You

Essentials
? PhD degree from top academic institution (MD with 3+ years of working
experience) in a relevant discipline
? Knowledge and experience in one or more of the above areas both from a
modelling/algorithmic perspective as well as implementation aspects
? Sound analytical & conceptual skills to understand key business needs and
apply existing and novel analytics solutions to solve specific business
problems.
? Experience in a combining analytic, scripting and visualisation tools for the
integrated analysis of transactional, text, speech and behavioural data.
? Advanced experience with statistical software such as R or Matlab.
? Knowledgeable in at least one programming language such as Python, Java,
Scala
? Experience working on distributed computational infrastructure (e.g. Spark)
? Excellent verbal and written English skills, ideally multi-lingual.

Behavioural Competences
? Team player with a 'can do' attitude
? Ability to work in an interdisciplinary and multi-cultural environment
? High degree of flexibility, independent and proactive working style
? Ability to work well under pressure and on multiple and conflicting
priorities
? Strong commitment to quality and timely customer service

Desired
? Understanding of (Re-) insurance and/or financial services information needs.
? Familiarity with Big Data concepts, approaches and tools
? Project experience is a plus

 

 

The Company is an equal opportunity employer.  It is the practice of the
Company to recruit, hire and promote without regard to race, religion, color,
national origin, sex, disability, age, pregnancy, sexual orientations, marital
status, military status, or any other characteristic protected by law.
 Decisions on employment are solely based on an individual's qualifications for
the position being filled.

 

During the recruitment process, reasonable accommodations for disabilities are
available upon request.  If contacted for an interview, please inform the
Recruiter/HR Professional of the accommodation needed.

 

Apply Save Job Return to List
Email this job to a friend
 

    ?

 
 

    ?
    The job has been sent to

 

                     Please provide the information below
             Job title:              
        *Your email address:         [                                        ]
   *Your friend?s email address:     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
              Message:               [                                        ]
   Maximum character limit: 1000     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
         Verification code:          
*Please enter the verification code  
             see here:

Send Cancel
