Scaled Agile Careers

Data Scientist

Accounting Boulder, Colorado

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Apply

Description












Based in Boulder, Colorado, Scaled Agile?s mission (www.scaledagile.com)  is to
help large enterprises achieve better outcomes, increase employee engagement,
and improve business economics through adoption of Lean-Agile principles and
practices based on the Scaled Agile Framework? (SAFe?).

SAI supports tens of thousands of practitioners of the Scaled Agile Framework
through training, certification, consulting services, and a global partner
network that reaches over 35 countries and 350 cities. As a member of the
Pledge 1% corporate philanthropy movement, SAI contributes to the local
community and seeks to inspire and encourage other companies to the same
purpose.

Overview of the Position:

In our new role you will have the opportunity to take ownership and create
exciting changes in our business models and strategies.   We are seeking an
energetic, conscientious, detail oriented Data Scientist who is determined to
make a difference, takes pride in their work, and is motivated by the team's
success. In this role you will have the flexibility and support to apply your
expertise to help Scaled Agile build and design a reporting approach to provide
the understanding we need to support business decision making.

What you?ll be doing:

Strategy:

  * Be a technology leader and innovator for Scaled Agile?s data management and
    strategies
  * Evaluate data management solutions and create improvement plans
  * Provide architectural advice and recommendations to internal customer
    requirements

Design:

  * Design, construct, and visualize Scaled Agile?s data model and reporting
    structure
  * Develop automated, consistent, repeatable process for KPI reporting and
    visualization
  * Modeling various behaviors, data and information about our enterprise
    customers, partners, membership and instructors

Collaborate:

  * Work with team leaders and departments across the company to consistently
    and efficiently gather and develop data requirements and reporting
  * Gather and interpret business needs and execute data and financial
    forecasting solutions including identifying data integration requirements
    and reporting tools
  * Leverage strong business acumen and business domain knowledge to anticipate
    business team inquiries.

Implement:

  * Put your strategy, design and collaboration to work.
  * Proactively review information, identifying inconsistencies, trends and
    areas for improvement
  * Analyze key metrics that drive revenue and improve the operations of the
    business.

Report:

  * You will synthesize insights through the vast amount of data captured by
    Scaled Agile, Google Analytics, Quickbooks, YM, Salesforce other systems to
    develop actionable reports that will help us grow the business while
    increasing our efficiency
  * Apply your expertise in quantitative analysis and data mining to
    effectively translate analytical findings into the language of decision
    makers
  * Present findings effectively supported by visual representations to see
    beyond the numbers and understand behavior of customers and clients.

Required Skills:

  * A Bachelor?s Degree in Statistics, Economics, Math, Engineering, Computer
    Science, or a related technical field
  * 4+ years of work experience in user and syste-ms-level analytics,
    consulting, educational training, certification programs or business
    strategy
  * The ability to gather and analyze data and apply it in day to day business
    solutions
  * Prior experience analyzing financial, marketing or customer data, with
    educational training and certification programs is a plus
  * Experience with statistical analysis and an understanding of statistical
    modeling concepts
  * Hands on experience in executing analysis using one or more of the
    following: Excel, SQL, SalesForce or other BI tools
  * Excellent skills in quantitative thinking, solid business intuition and the
    keen ability to understand complex business systems
  * Ability to create dashboards and reports that support complex analysis
  * The ability to visualize and clearly communicate complex results to team
    members and leadership team
  * Expertise in analyzing large, complex, multi-dimensional datasets with a
    variety of tools. You are accomplished in the use of statistical analysis
    environments.
  * You have a keen desire to solve business problems, and strive to find
    patterns and insights within structured and unstructured data. You have the
    ability to propose analytics strategies and solutions that challenge and
    expand the thinking of you team members.

Where you?ll be working:

This position is based in our corporate headquarters and training center in
Boulder..

Why Scaled Agile?

We are a growing organization with a proven revenue model and a serious
opportunity to be the global market leader in software and systems development
knowledgeware. This is a place for people who love technology environments,
geek out on Methodologies and are always thinking about how things can be
improved. If you?re looking for foosball, a kegerator or weekly free massages
that?s not what we?re about.


We are a group of seasoned professionals and systems thinkers who are
passionate about our mission of helping the biggest organizations in the world
improve the way they produce software and creating real value. We're
profitable, we're agile.


If you are looking for an opportunity to contribute to the direction and
success of a vibrant business we'd love to hear from you. Please provide a
resume, with a few thoughts on why you think you?d be a great fit. (We still
read cover letters).



Apply Apply Later
? Back to Current Openings
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Share

LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Email
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Similar Jobs

{{ job.title }}

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Powered by Jobvite

