Skip Navigation
FRESENIUS Menu Menu

  • About FMCNA
      □ Overview
      □ Our History
      □ Locations
      □ Our Values
      □ Awards & Honors
      □ News
      □ FAQs
  • Career Areas
      □ Overview
      □ Clinical Managers
      □ Dietitians
      □ Manufacturing, Product Development, Distribution & Corporate
      □ Nursing
      □ Patient Care Technicians
      □ Quality
      □ Regulatory
      □ Social Workers
      □ Travel Nurse
      □ TruBlu Logistics
      □ Vascular Care
  • Working at FMCNA
      □ Overview
      □ Training & Development
      □ Benefits
      □ Culture
      □ Military
      □ Students
      □ Diversity & Inclusion
      □ Puerto Rico
  • Contact Us

Life-changing care, world-changing difference

Find a job at FMCNA

Keyword [                    ]

Location [                    ]

Radius [Radius  ]

Search

Use your LinkedIn profile to search

  • Browse by Groups
  • Browse by Category
  • Browse by Location

Data Scientist II

Apply Now Current Employee? Job ID 16000XO0
PURPOSE AND SCOPE:

Supports FMCNA’s mission, vision, core values and customer service philosophy. 
Adheres to the FMCNA Compliance Program, including following all regulatory and
division/company policy requirements. 

As Senior Data Scientist, you participate in the operational activities
involved in the planning, conduct, and completion of data science projects in
the FMCNA enterprise.   

PRINCIPAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES 

  • Conducts advanced data analysis and complex designs algorithm. 
  • Identifies what data is available and relevant, including internal and
    external data sources, leveraging new data collection processes  
  • Identifies and analyzes patterns in the volume of data supporting the
    initiative, the type of data (e.g., images, text, clickstream or metering
    data) and the speed or sudden variations in data collection. 
  • Partners with the data stewards to define the data quality expectation in
    the context of the specific use case.  
  • Recommends ongoing improvements to methods and algorithms that lead to
    findings, including new information.  
  • Develop ideas into original research projects which can significantly
    improve clinical practice 
  • Develop product and process improvement into an intellectual property
    format. 
  • Analyze all data using various data analysis software and/or applying
    quantitative methods, resolve data discrepancies, draw conclusions, and
    provide/implement process or documents improvements.   
  • Contribute to the definition and timely achievement of overall project
    goals.  Make recommendations, and when appropriate, acts independently to
    resolve scientific problems encountered during experimental procedures to
    improve productivity of results.  Ensure activities are consistent with
    project critical path, and respond appropriately to changing priorities.  
  • Present findings at international conferences and locally at group and
    departmental meetings.   
  • Keep informed of trends and developments in area of scientific
    responsibility and improve competence by participating in educational
    activities.  
  • Ability to work on issues that impact or address future concepts, products
    or technologies. 
  • Ability to network with key decision makers.  

PHYSICAL DEMANDS AND WORKING CONDITIONS: 

The physical demands and work environment characteristics described here are
representative of those an employee encounters while performing the essential
functions of this job.  Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable
individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. 


EDUCATION:  

Advanced Degree in epidemiology, public health, statistics, data analysis or
similar preferred; or Bachelor’s Degree with equivalent work experience 

Working knowledge in R, Python, SAS 

  

EXPERIENCE AND REQUIRED SKILLS:  

  • 3-5 years of relevant quantitative and qualitative research and analytics
    experience.  
  • Solid knowledge of statistical techniques.  
  • The ability to come up with solutions to loosely defined problems by
    leveraging pattern detection over potentially large datasets.  
  • Strong programming skills (such as Hadoop or other big data frameworks,
    Java), and statistical modeling (like SAS or R).  
  • Experience using machine learning algorithms. 
  • Proficiency in the use of statistical packages. 
  • Excellent verbal and written communication skills required for interacting
    with physicians, nurses, management, and peers.   
  • Ability to clearly summarize methodology and key points of program/report
    in technical documentation/specifications is also required. 
  • Strong knowledge of outcomes research and analysis of health quality data. 
  • Ability to work independently without day-to-day supervision or the use of
    templates. 
  • Knowledge of clinical data and dialysis industry.   

EO/AA Employer: Minorities/Females/Veterans/Disability/Sexual Orientation/
Gender Identity


Apply Now Current Employee?

Share

  • Email
  • LinkedIn
  • Twitter
  • Facebook

About this Location

Job Alerts

Email Address[                    ]

Interested InEnter category and/or location, then click ADD. You must have at
least one alert to sign up.

Category[                    ]

Location[                    ]

Add

  • Staff, Waltham, Massachusetts, United StatesRemove
  • Remove

Confirm Email [                    ]

[Sign Up]

Follow Us

  • Facebook
  • LinkedIn
  • YouTube
  • Twitter

  • Forbes America's Best Employers
    FMC Named on Forbes' Best Employers List

    FMC is the only renal care provider to have made the list.

  • FMCNA Taking care of employees and communities in times of crisis

    In times of crisis, learn how Fresenius is there to provide support to
    employees.

  • FMCNA Recruiter
    Career Tips from the Recruiters at FMCNA

    Recruiter insights to kick-start your job search.

  • Amanda
    Finding Support for Your Healthier Lifestyle

    Find support as you shed old habits and develop new ones.

  • Culture at FMCNA
    Culture at FMCNA

    Meet the Atienzas: Bringing New Meaning to ‘Work Family’

  • Top 5 reasons why Nephrology nursing is the career for you
    Top 5 reasons why Nephrology nursing is the career for you

    Learn more about why a career in nephrology nursing is rewarding.

  • FMCNA Team Gives Back
    FMCNA Team Gives Back

    Members of the FMCNA team turned a team meeting into a team-building
    exercise to make fleece blankets for homeless military veterans.

  • Dialysis Jobs in New England
    Dialysis Jobs in New England

    Fresenius Dialysis Jobs in New England

  • FMCNA Scholarship Winnters
    FMCNA Announces 3rd Annual Scholarship Winners

    Scholarships awarded to children and grandchildren of FMCNA employees.

  • Damien, U.S. Veteran | Fresenius Warehouse Careers
    Damien, U.S. Veteran | Fresenius Warehouse Careers

    Discover how Damien transferred his skills from the military to Fresenius

  • Home Contact Us
  • About FMCNA
      □ Overview
      □ Our History
      □ Locations
      □ Our Values
      □ Awards & Honors
      □ News
      □ FAQ
  • Career Areas
      □ Overview
      □ Clinical Managers
      □ Dietitians
      □ Manufacturing, Product Development, Distribution & Corporate
      □ Nursing
      □ Patient Care Technicians
      □ Quality
      □ Regulatory
      □ Social Workers
      □ Travel Nurse
      □ TruBlue Logistics
  • Working at FMCNA
      □ Overview
      □ Training & Development
      □ Benefits
      □ Culture

Fresenius Medical Care

If you are a recruitment agency submitting a resume on behalf of a client:

Fresenius Medical Care North America (FMCNA) only accepts resumes from agencies
on the preferred supplier list and all third party searches require Human
Resources approval. Please do not forward resumes to our applicant tracking
system or to FMCNA employees and/or FMCNA Management. FMCNA is not responsible
for any fees or charges associated with unsolicited resumes or third party
searches conducted without Human Resources approval.

If you are interested in applying for employment with Fresenius Medical Care,
NA and require special assistance or accommodation during any part of the
pre-employment process, please contact our dedicated Help Desk for assistance
at (855) FMCNAHR.

All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without
regard to race, color, religion, sex, age, pregnancy, marital status, national
origin, citizenship status, disability, military status, genetic predisposition
or carrier status or any other legally protected characteristic.

