[logo2016]
Show navigation Hide navigation

  • Home
      □ Benefits
      □ Why work for us?
  • Employment Listings
      □ Search Current Openings
      □ Update Your Profile
      □ Create a Job Agent
      □ Update Job Agent
      □ Recruiting Agency Login
  • About Us
      □ Company History
  • FAQs

Your user session will timeout in 5 minutes. Please click OK to continue with
your application.

Data Scientist

Tracking Code
    219170-891
Job Description
   
    The Conrad Prebys Center for Chemical Genomics at Sanford Burnham Prebys
    Medical Discovery Institute is searching for a Data Scientist to be a
    contributing member of the high content imaging platforms team.   Our
    vision is to be the world’s leading academic drug discovery and development
    organization, an epicenter for innovative approaches to accelerate the
    discovery of new drugs to help save lives and treat disease. This is an
    exciting opportunity to directly support scientists focused on biomedical
    and drug discovery projects with an end goal of ultimately benefiting
    patients. 

     

    The Data Scientist will provide advanced multi-parametric data analysis
    from high content screening and analysis experiments. This will include
    providing large-scale data management, data preparation, exploration,
    statistical analyses, advanced data mining and visualization as well as
    correlation and interpretation of results. 

     

    As a key high content imaging platforms team member and in close
    collaboration with drug discovery and biomedical research scientists, the
    Data Scientist:

      □ Designs the approach and performs complex multi-variate data analyses
        and visualizations and communicates the interpretation of results
      □ Develops and applies analysis solutions by using proven advanced data
        mining techniques for complex large-scale biological data sets
      □ Plans, documents, and validates workflows for general multi-variate
        data analysis concepts and for interactive viewing and sharing of the
        data and analysis results
      □ Develops software tools to facilitate and perform large-scale data
        handling and management in collaboration with other members of the high
        content imaging platforms team
      □ Contributes to scientific publications and grant applications as
        needed.

     

    Our ideal candidate will have demonstrated proficiency in the key areas of
    statistics, advanced multi-variate data analysis, feature selection/
    dimensionality reduction, data mining and machine learning. We seek an
    individual with strong scientific programming skills and knowledge of both
    Windows and Linux operating environments.  This individual should be
    familiar with biology and the drug discovery process and be able to
    effectively communicate and collaborate with scientists.  In addition,
    someone that can support multiple projects in parallel and perform multiple
    tasks concurrently will be successful. 

Required Experience
   
    Required Experience

      □ A Master’s Degree in Computational Biology/Medicine, Computer Sciences,
        Statistics or a related field or an equivalent combination of
        education, training and experience from which comparable knowledge,
        skills and abilities have been attained
      □ A minimum of three years directly related experience supporting complex
        data analysis in a scientific environment
      □ Experience with KNIME, Weka, Python Scikit-Learn or other data mining
        tools
      □ Experience in using statistical languages such as R or Matlab or Python
        programming language

     

    Preferred Experience

      □ Familiarity with chemical/biological data structures and experience
        with mining of data derived from medical or biological images, i.e.
        microscopy images, strongly preferred
      □ Familiarity with creation of tool apps using R/Shiny, Java or similar
        preferred

     

    Other key characteristics

      □ Work independently as well as in a team environment
      □ Excellent verbal/written communication and interpersonal skills
      □ Responsible, organized, and a problem solver
      □ Possess strong attention to detail
      □ Embody the Institute’s core values of Commitment, Collaboration,
        Communication, Community and Compassion.

     

     

    Sanford Burnham Prebys Medical Discovery Institute is an Equal Opportunity
    employer – M/F/Veteran/Disability – committed to the hiring, advancement
    and fair treatment of all individuals. All qualified applicants will
    receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color,
    religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age,
    disability, protected veteran status, or any other protected status as
    designated by federal, state or local law. For additional information about
    your rights as an applicant, click HERE.

     

    Sanford Burnham Prebys Medical Discovery Institute will not discharge or in
    any other manner discriminate against employees or applicants because they
    have inquired about, discussed, or disclosed their own pay or the pay of
    another employee or applicant. However, employees who have access to the
    compensation information of other employees or applicants as a part of
    their essential job functions cannot disclose the pay of other employees or
    applicants to individuals who do not otherwise have access to compensation
    information, unless the disclosure is (a) in response to a formal complaint
    or charge, (b) in furtherance of an investigation, proceeding, hearing, or
    action, including an investigation conducted by the employer, or (c)
    consistent with the contractor’s legal duty to furnish information.

     

Job Location
    La Jolla, California, United States
Position Type
    Full-Time/Regular

Apply

[New Resume/CV]

[Existing Resume/CV]

Share

Return To Job Listings 

Medical Discovery Careers Contact Us Donate

© 2016 Sanford Burnham Prebys Medical Discovery Institute. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Financial Conflict of Interest Policy

   
