Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Analytical Consultant / Data Scientist

Analytical Consultant / Data Scientist

Requisition ID 
    20015318

Job Locations 
    US-NC-Cary

Category 
    Consulting

Visa Sponsorship 
    Yes

Travel Requirements 
    50%

Overview

Germany SAS

 

 

  

About SAS:
SAS believes in the whole employee experience. Meaningful work. Empowerment to
make a difference that changes people?s lives. Dynamic work environments that
foster innovation. And an award-winning culture that makes it all possible. We
believe great ideas can come from anywhere. Whether you're a university
recruit, or an experienced professional ready for the next big challenge, SAS
brings perks, passion, and the potential to grow. No limits.

 

Can you apply creative thinking to large data sets to solve customer business
problems using SAS? Are you looking for an opportunity to utilize your analytic
skills across a wide variety of industries? The SAS Advanced Analytics Lab
(AAL) is seeking talented individuals to help our customers bridge the gap
between the data they have and the solutions they need.

 

As a member of the SAS Advanced Analytics Lab (AAL), you will support customer
analytic business needs through requirements gathering, data discovery,
analysis, reporting, and presentation. Your duties will include analyzing large
volumes of customer data for accuracy and consistency, translating business
requirements into analytic methods, building analytic models, and presenting
results. Your duties will also include automating analytic processes,
developing and enhancing custom software tools, assisting in quality assurance
efforts for all AAL projects, and other duties as assigned.

 

Required Technical Experience and Education Level:

Master's degree in statistics, mathematics, computer science, operations
research, or a related quantitative field
At least 2 years of experience in data analysis or analytical consulting
At least 1 year of experience programming in the SAS System

 

 

Additional Aptitude and Skills:

Excellent written and verbal communication skills.
Ability to solve customers' complex business problems using innovative
analytical processes and techniques
Familiarity with data mining approaches
Ability to communicate with people of various technical and business
backgrounds, including the ability to explain difficult technical concepts in
simple terms to business users.
Ability to work independently and with a team environment.
Proven record of handling increasing responsibilities
Ability to travel as business requirements dictate, up to 25%

 

 

Preferred Experience, Knowledge or Education Level: 

Experience with health care claims data, public or private.

Ph.D. degree in statistics, mathematics, computer science, operations research,
or a related quantitative field
Experience with Link or Social Network Analysis
Experience with analytic approaches related to fraud detection
Experience in industry or government, especially fraud detection
Industry or academic experience in mathematical/statistical modeling, pattern
recognition, or data mining/data analysis.
Experience with SAS Enterprise Miner and Text Miner software
Experience with SAS ETS and SAS Forecast Studio
Experience with probabilistic linkage of large data sets
Willing to relocate or currently located in the Cary, NC area

 

 

  

 

Want to stay up to date on SAS culture, products and jobs? Follow us on
LinkedIn LinkedIn Logo

 

 

Additional Information
To qualify, applicants must be legally authorized to work in the United States,
and should not require, now or in the future, sponsorship for employment visa
status. SAS is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will
receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion,
sex, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status or any other
characteristic protected by law. The level of this position will be determined
based on the applicant's education, skills and experience. Resumes may be
considered in the order they are received. SAS employees performing certain job
functions may require access to technology or software subject to export or
import regulations. To comply with these regulations, SAS may obtain
nationality or citizenship information from applicants for employment. SAS
collects this information solely for trade law compliance purposes and does not
use it to discriminate unfairly in the hiring process.

Options

 
Apply Now!Apply
Share
 
Share with a FriendRefer
Share with your networks
[back]Back to Start/Home Page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

