[galvanize2]

Instructor, Sr. Data Scientist

New York
Instructional Team
Full-time
Apply for this job

Instructor, Sr. Data Scientist

We are growing our data science instructional team at Galvanize. Our
Instructors train technical professionals with programming experience to solve
data science problems utilizing innovative educational techniques. We’re
looking for passionate educators and practical problem solvers with
demonstrated flexibility and curiosity.

We are seeking Data Science Instructors for classes in San Francisco, Seattle,
Denver, New York, and Phoenix. Join us in building the world's hub for
education in data science and data engineering.

AS A DATA SCIENCE INSTRUCTOR AT GALVANIZE, YOU WILL:

      □ Deliver lectures and tutorials on: scientific Python, SQL, probability,
        statistics (Bayesian and frequentist), machine learning, and data
        engineering 
      □ Lead day-long “sprints,” maintaining a strong presence in the classroom
        and helping other instructional staff
      □ Deftly and patiently field student questions and provide feedback in
        lectures and office hours
      □ Build and refine data science curriculum and assignments
      □ Utilize student feedback and experimentation to continuously improve
        teaching and assessment methods
      □ Evaluate new tools, packages, and tutorials for use in the curriculum

PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT:

      □ At Galvanize, we strive to providing meaningful professional
        development opportunities to all of our employees. 
      □ Here are just a few of the ways you will continue to grow and
        “level-up” as a data scientist and a teacher:  There’s no better way to
        learn than to teach! You’ll be amazed at how much you’ll develop skills
        you thought you were already an expert in just by helping students and
        planning lessons.
      □ Opportunities to work with and learn from other data science and full
        stack instructors in a highly collaborative environment. 
      □ Rub shoulders and cross-pollinate. Keep your skills sharp with the
        option to work with our consulting arm, Galvanize X, on industry data
        science projects. 
      □ Previous projects have involved: Deep Learning, Deep Engineering and
        Architecture, Applied Statistics and Statistical Modeling, Web
        Development Ruby on Rails, Angular, Ember, React, and Node.js and
        Express. 
      □  Become the best instructor you can be with ongoing training and
        support.

EXPECTED EXPERIENCE:

      □ Experience in industry in a data scientist or software engineer role
      □ Master's or PhD in a quantitative discipline such as engineering,
        statistics, or mathematicsStrong understanding in the topics we teach:
        scientific Python, probability, statistics (Probability, A/B Testing,
        Bayesian methods, Regression methods, Time Series), SQL, machine
        learning (Decision Trees, Random Forest, Boosting, Support Vector
        Machines, Clustering, Natural Language Processing, Recommenders,
        Graphs), data engineering (Hadoop, Hive, and MapReduce), data
        visualization (d3), and data at scale. For more details on the program
        go to: http://www.galvanize.com/courses/data-science/#.Viqz4LQR8UU
      □ Outstanding communication skills
      □ Experience teaching a quantitative subject preferred


Galvanize provides equal employment opportunities (EEO) to all employees and
applicants for employment. Qualified applicants will receive consideration for
employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation,
gender perception or identity, national origin, age, marital status, protected
veteran status, or disability status.

Apply for this job

Galvanize Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
