Skip Navigation

  • CAREERS
  • INVESTORS
  • NEWSROOM

Abbot

  • Live Healthy
  • About Us
  • Products

[                    ] [Search]  
Toggle Navigation
[ice-banner]
Search Jobs

Keyword [                    ]

Location [                    ] [Use Location]

Search Jobs

Data Scientist

Abbott Park , United States

Apply

An equal opportunity employer, Abbott welcomes and encourages diversity in our
workforce.

JOB DESCRIPTION:

[                    ]
Abbott is a global healthcare company devoted to improving life through the
development of products and technologies that span the breadth of healthcare.
With a portfolio of leading, science-based offerings in diagnostics, medical
devices, nutritionals and branded generic pharmaceuticals, Abbott serves people
in more than 150 countries and employs approximately 73,000 people. Please note
that candidates need to be eligible to work in the U.S. without Abbott
sponsorship.

JOB DESCRIPTION:

Primary Job Function

The Data Scientist will be responsible for designing, validating, and solving
business problems across the organization related to data modeling and
information management at Abbott. This includes providing best-in-class
analytical practices that compliments business efforts towards revenue
generation, cost savings, working capital reduction, and cost avoidance. The
responsibility involves capturing data across systems and analyzes existing
procedures and processes to ensure data exchanges and performance metrics are
maintained.  Working with cross functional divisions and strategic business
partners in an effort to provide process improvements, leverage analytical
tools, and information management will also be part of the role. The Data
Scientist is expected to work closely with key stakeholders, corporate IT,
finance, and the business to assure continuous evolvement of information
management and actionable analytics at Abbott. Supporting established
dashboards, metrics and monitors is a core competency that the team provides. A
candidate for this position would be well versed in programming, mathematics,
statistics, data modeling, and have strong business acumen.  The ability to
work in a diverse team and willingness to learn will be a key attribute in the
role.

Core Job Responsibilities

Responsible for compliance with applicable Corporate and Divisional Policies
and procedures.

  • Ability to translate business needs and goals into a data driven analytical
    approach
  •  Conceptualize, create, and implement data modeling across the organization
    to reflect best-in-class practices while supporting data management and
    business intelligence.
  •  Support a core function to understand, capture, and operationalize
    advanced analytics at the enterprise level such that the business can
    easily consume and utilize findings
  •  Work with multi-divisional/functional stakeholders to build and drive data
    modeling strategies and support other activities that require business
    information such as: market analysis, cost avoidance measures, comparative
    analysis, and working capital reduction.
  •  Cultivate transparency across business sponsors by increasing access to
    data and analytics through discovery and visualization techniques
  •  Strong analytical skills with a solid foundation in: programming and
    algorithm development (R, python, SQL, VBA), mathematics and statistics
    (forecasting, simulation, mathematical programming, machine learning), and
    database (big data platforms and rational databases)
  • Business acumen within supply chain, marketing insights, and related system
    architecture
  • Strategically pursue the development of data modeling and advanced
    analytics in a continuous effort to keep Abbott a leader in the field
  • Other duties as assigned

Position Accountability / Scope

Products: Manage the creation of advanced analytical tool that will be
developed by the team and the Agile server or any environment used for piloting
projects.

Budgets:  No budget will be allocated to the person in this position

Throughput:  Identifying a combination of $5M in cost savings, working capital,
and/or revenue generation through analytical model/report development.

Level: An individual in this role is expected to interact with directors and
managers leading investigations, meetings, and the timely delivery of projects

Purpose: The role has 3 main purposes: 1. Impact – identify cost savings,
working capital, revenue generation, and/or gaining efficiencies through
analytics; 2. Delivery – facilitate and support pilots aimed at realizing
identified impacts and/or learnings for improvement; 3. Enrichment – elevate
and develop advanced analytical skill set to solve business opportunities
within divisions at Abbott .

Minimum Education

BSc, BA, or equivalent experience required

Successful, 3+ year track record within data modeling and advanced analytics.

Minimum Experience / Training Required

Deep experience with analytics, system architecture, and large-scale data
science

Strong background in programming languages (e.g. R, python, java, VBA)

Experience in applied mathematics, statistical analysis, and data management

Ability to turn a multi-facet, complex business problem into a robust
engineered solution

Project management skill, ability to work cross-functionally, and propensity to
operate independently

Effective communicator, positive, “can do” attitude, and “Systems” thinker

Apply

Share This Job

  • Email
  • LinkedIn
  • Twitter
  • Facebook

Explore the Location
Pie Chart

Job Breakdown

Job ID: 30034143

Job Family: Accounting-Evaluation And Analysis

Division: CHMN Office of the Chairman

Location: United States - Abbott Park

Work Shift: Standard

Travel: Yes, 5 % of the Time

Medical Surveilance: No

Significant Work Activities: Continuous sitting for prolonged periods (more
than 2 consecutive hours in an 8 hour day), Keyboard use (greater or equal to
50% of the workday) EEO is the Law link - English: http://webstorage.abbott.com
/common/External/EEO_English.pdf EEO is the Law link - Espanol: http://
webstorage.abbott.com/common/External/EEO_Spanish.pdf

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Working Here

U.S. Engineering U.S. Nutrition Sales Latin America Nutrition Sales
Medical Devices
Marketing Russia Sales Student
Development
Program

Sign up for Job Alerts

Required fields are marked with an asterisk ( * )

First Name[                    ]

Last Name[                    ]

Email Address[                    ]

Area of InterestSearch for a category and select one from the list of
suggestions. Search for a location and select one from the list of suggestions.
Finally, click “Add” to create your job alert.

Category[                    ]

Location[                    ]

Add +

  • DNU Accounting/Finance (Inactive), Lake Bluff, Illinois, United States
    Remove
  • Remove

Confirm Email [                    ]

[Sign Up]

Job Matching

Let LinkedIn match jobs to your profile.

Search Now

  • [twitter-bl]

    Abbott News

    Twitter

  • [facebook-b]

    Abbott Careers

    Facebook

  • [linkedin-b]

    Abbott Careers

    Linkedin

  • [youtube-bl]

    Abbott Global

    Youtube

An equal opportunity employer, Abbott welcomes and encourages diversity in our
workforce.

EEO (English) EEO (Spanish)

We provide reasonable accommodation to qualified individuals with disabilities.
To request accommodation, please call 224-667-4913 or email CorpJAT@abbott.com.

Important Notice

You are leaving the Abbott site and will be redirected to the Abbott job
application site powered by Workday.

Continue Cancel

Abbot Laboratories Logo

Making an everlasting
impact on human health
For 125 years.

  • Live Healthy
  • About Us
  • Products

  • Careers
  • Citizenship
  • Investors
  • Newsroom
  • Partners

  • Site Map
  • Policies
  • Contact
  • Global Sites
  • Privacy Policy
  • Terms & Conditions

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Instagram
  • YouTube

© 2017 Abbott. All Rights Reserved. Please read the Legal Notice for further
details.

Unless otherwise specified, all product and service names appearing in this
Internet site are trademarks owned by or licensed to Abbott, its subsidiaries
or affiliates. No use of any Abbott trademark, trade name, or trade dress in
this site may be made without the prior written authorization of Abbott, except
to identify the product or services of the company.

  • Careers
  • Investors
  • Newsroom
  • Contact
  • Site Map
  • Policies
  • Privacy Policy
  • Terms & Conditions

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Instagram
  • YouTube

