Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Flight Data Analysis Intern

Flight Data Analysis Intern

Requisition ID 
    2017-3622

Company 
    Teledyne Controls

Shift 
    1st Shift - Day

Locations 
    US-CA-El Segundo

Citizenship/Visa Requirement 
    US Citizen/Perm Resident/ Other US Person

Internal Code 
    #CB#

More information about this job:

Company Overview:

Teledyne Controls’ mission, vision, and value statements have never really
changed in principle since 1964. Dedication to every employee and client’s
success; Innovation that matters - for our company and for the world; Trust and
personal responsibility in all relationships – Teledyne Controls is
EveryWhereYouLook!

Are you looking to be part of a dynamic and growing organization - whose
company culture is centered on empowering its employees to make decisions? As
one of the leading providers of end-to-end avionics solution, Teledyne Controls
is focused on hiring the best available talent!

Position Summary and Responsibilities:

Teledyne Controls is seeking an Avionics Product Support Engineering Intern
 supporting our Flight Data Analysis Services Engineering to assist the
Customer Service department with a wide range of projects related to Flight
Data Analysis Services.

 

While interning at Teledyne Controls, you will:

  • Work within a diverse workforce and functional groups
  • Be exposed to and understand the complexity of Flight Data Analysis
  • Be challenged with substantial work that will be beneficial to your
    academic and future professional career

As a member of the Product Support Engineering team, the Intern candidate will:

  • Gather and interpret data for reports and analysis - verifying source
    material for authenticity purposes
  • Provide support in preparing reports, documentation, and analysis to higher
    level department personnel
  • Obtain documentation and other data needed to help develop procedures for
    future projects and analyses

Qualifications:

.

Education Requirements:

  • Candidates must be currently enrolled at a College/University and pursuing
    an Accredited degree in technical disciplines: in Computer Science,
    Aerospace Engineering
  • Must possess good academic standing (GPA of 3.0 of higher)
  • Ability to work under the direction of engineers to perform tests, and
    evaluate materials for particular applications
  • Familiarity with current, computer applications and technologies in
    applicable engineering disciplines: Microsoft Office Suite application
    (Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint)
  • Ability to develop basic technical design and developmental problem-solving
    skills
  • Ability to develop and maintain effective, professional relationships, and
    communicate effectively
  • Proficiency in written and spoken English is required

 

This is an [Internship] opportunity with one of the leading providers of
sophisticated solutions designed to help operators increase flight safety and
operational efficiency through more efficient aircraft data and information
management, located in El Segundo, California.

 

 

Teledyne is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer. All qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex including sexual orientation, gender identity, or
pregnancy, national origin, disability, protected Veteran Status, or any other
characteristic protected by applicable federal, state, or local law.

In our efforts to maintain a safe and drug-free workplace, Teledyne Controls
requires that candidates complete a satisfactory background check and pass a
drug screen prior to employment.

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

