Rapid7 logo
Apply Now

Data Scientist

at Rapid7 (View all jobs)
Cambridge, MA

Rapid7 is a leading provider of security data and analytics solutions that
enable organizations to implement an active, analytics-driven approach to cyber
security. We combine our extensive experience in security data and analytics
and deep insight into attacker behaviors and techniques to make sense of the
wealth of data available to organizations about their IT environments and
users. Our solutions empower organizations to prevent attacks by providing
visibility into vulnerabilities and to rapidly detect compromises, respond to
breaches, and correct the underlying causes of attacks. Rapid7 is trusted by
more than 4,150 organizations across 90 countries, including 34% of the Fortune
1000. To learn more about Rapid7 or get involved in our threat research, visit
www.rapid7.com.   

The ideal candidate is an inquisitive learner with a passion for security, data
and analytics. The candidate can effectively collaborate with stakeholders
across functional areas to review and optimize current reporting, analytics,
and data structure/data capture all while aligning to corporate objectives. 
This role requires a mixture of business acumen and technical expertise, along
with an ability to build strong partnerships with business partners.  Success
in the role will require a self-starter with a passion for collaborating with
others to solve problems.

Data Scientist should be:

  * A strong team player and communicator who is able to remain productive and
    focused in a team-oriented, fast-paced environment.
  * A well rounded analytical thinker who will work on all aspects of the
    design, development and delivery of predictive models using unsupervised
    and supervised learning techniques to detect and stop the most
    sophisticated threats and attack vectors.
  * Deeply involved with problem definition, data exploration, data acquisition
    and visualization, evaluating and comparing metrics, deploying various
    models and iteratively improving solutions.
  * Able to handle the prioritization of project and tasks.
  * Able to develop models (predictive and classification) for a variety of
    problems.
  * Able to communicate clearly about complex analytical tasks by producing
    concise and easily consumable reports.
  * Excited about developing continuous improvements to push the organization
    towards new and improved ways to use data to improve business processes.
  * Able to look for opportunities proactively to improve the business, outside
    of the specific questions asked, and understand how to influence the
    organization to make needed changes.

Data Scientist should have:

  * BS or MS in Statistics, Mathematics, Machine Learning, Data Mining,
    Analytics, Data Science or other quantitative disciplines
  * 3+ years? experience in data analytics.
  * Good communication skills.
  * 2+ years? experience working with big data projects.
  * Experience with statistical modeling/data mining algorithms such as
    Multivariate Regression, Logistic Regression, clustering algorithms,
    Support Vector Machines, Decision Trees, etc.
  * The ability to dive into a Python codebase; familiarity with a scientific
    computing framework such as Numpy, R. or other statistical packages.
  * Familiarity and comfort with MapReduce.
  * Comfortable to work on very large data sets of sparse high dimensional
    data; experienced in pre-processing and analyzing such data to gain
    actionable insights.
  * An independent self-starter who likes to take ownership and independently
    seeks out new challenges.
  * A good understanding of traditional machine learning / data analysis
    pipelines.
  * Knowledge of computer security issues.
  * A strong interest to dive further into the field of cybersecurity.

Apply for this Job
* Required
(Optional)
Almost there! Review your information then click 'Submit Application' to apply.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
First Name * [                    ]
Last Name * [                    ]
Email * [                    ]
Phone * [                    ]
Location (City) * [                    ]
Resume/CV *
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
Cover Letter
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LinkedIn Profile
[                    ]
Website
[                    ]
How did you hear about this job? *
[                    ]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S. Equal Opportunity Employment Information (Completion is voluntary)

Individuals seeking employment at Rapid7 are considered without regards to
race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, marital status, ancestry,
physical or mental disability, veteran status, gender identity, or sexual
orientation. You are being given the opportunity to provide the following
information in order to help us comply with federal and state Equal Employment
Opportunity/Affirmative Action record keeping, reporting, and other legal
requirements.

Completion of the form is entirely voluntary. Whatever your decision, it will
not be considered in the hiring process or thereafter. Any information that you
do provide will be recorded and maintained in a confidential file.

Gender [Please select           ]
Are you Hispanic/Latino? [Please select           ]
Please identify your race [Please select                            ]
Race & Ethnicity Definitions

If you believe you belong to any of the categories of protected veterans listed
below, please indicate by making the appropriate selection. As a government
contractor subject to Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act
(VEVRAA), we request this information in order to measure the effectiveness of
the outreach and positive recruitment efforts we undertake pursuant to VEVRAA.
Classification of protected categories is as follows:

A "disabled veteran" is one of the following: a veteran of the U.S. military,
ground, naval or air service who is entitled to compensation (or who but for
the receipt of military retired pay would be entitled to compensation) under
laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; or a person who was
discharged or released from active duty because of a service-connected
disability.

A "recently separated veteran" means any veteran during the three-year period
beginning on the date of such veteran's discharge or release from active duty
in the U.S. military, ground, naval, or air service.

An "active duty wartime or campaign badge veteran" means a veteran who served
on active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service during a war,
or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized
under the laws administered by the Department of Defense.

An "Armed forces service medal veteran" means a veteran who, while serving on
active duty in the U.S. military, ground, naval or air service, participated in
a United States military operation for which an Armed Forces service medal was
awarded pursuant to Executive Order 12985.

Veteran Status 
[Please select                                                          ]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Form CC-305

OMB Control Number 1250-0005

Expires 1/31/2017

Voluntary Self-Identification of Disability

Why are you being asked to complete this form?

Because we do business with the government, we must reach out to, hire, and
provide equal opportunity to qualified people with disabilities^1. To help us
measure how well we are doing, we are asking you to tell us if you have a
disability or if you ever had a disability. Completing this form is voluntary,
but we hope that you will choose to fill it out. If you are applying for a job,
any answer you give will be kept private and will not be used against you in
any way.

If you already work for us, your answer will not be used against you in any
way. Because a person may become disabled at any time, we are required to ask
all of our employees to update their information every five years. You may
voluntarily self-identify as having a disability on this form without fear of
any punishment because you did not identify as having a disability earlier.

How do I know if I have a disability?

You are considered to have a disability if you have a physical or mental
impairment or medical condition that substantially limits a major life
activity, or if you have a history or record of such an impairment or medical
condition.

Disabilities include, but are not limited to:

  * Blindness
  * Deafness
  * Cancer
  * Diabetes
  * Epilepsy
  * Autism
  * Cerebral palsy
  * HIV/AIDS
  * Schizophrenia
  * Muscular dystrophy
  * Bipolar disorder
  * Major depression
  * Multiple sclerosis (MS)
  * Missing limbs or partially missing limbs
  * Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
  * Obsessive compulsive disorder
  * Impairments requiring the use of a wheelchair
  * Intellectual disability (previously called mental retardation)

Disability Status [Please select                                            ]
Reasonable Accommodation Notice

Federal law requires employers to provide reasonable accommodation to qualified
individuals with disabilities. Please tell us if you require a reasonable
accommodation to apply for a job or to perform your job. Examples of reasonable
accommodation include making a change to the application process or work
procedures, providing documents in an alternate format, using a sign language
interpreter, or using specialized equipment.

^1Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. For more
information about this form or the equal employment obligations of Federal
contractors, visit the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Federal Contract
Compliance Programs (OFCCP) website at www.dol.gov/ofccp.

PUBLIC BURDEN STATEMENT: According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 no
persons are required to respond to a collection of information unless such
collection displays a valid OMB control number. This survey should take about 5
minutes to complete.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Application consent for Rapid7

By clicking the ?I Accept? button you expressly make the following
representations and warranties and give your consents as described below:

Rapid7 collects your personal data for the purposes of managing Rapid7?s
recruitment related activities as well as for organizational planning purposes
globally. Consequently, Rapid7 may use your personal data in relation to the
evaluation and selection of applicants including for example setting up and
conducting interviews and tests, evaluating and assessing the results thereto
and as is otherwise needed in the recruitment processes including the final
recruitment.

Rapid7 does not disclose your personal data to unauthorized third parties.
However, as a global corporation consisting of multiple affiliated companies in
various countries, Rapid7 has international sites and Rapid7 uses resources
located throughout the world. Rapid7 may from time to time also use third
parties to act on Rapid7?s behalf. You agree to the fact that to the extent
necessary your personal data may be transferred and/or disclosed to any company
within Rapid7 group of companies as well as to third parties acting on Rapid7?s
behalf, including also transfers to servers and databases outside the country
where you provided Rapid7 with your personal data. Such transfers may include
for example transfers and/or disclosures outside the European Economic Area and
in the United States of America.

[ ]  I Accept
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Submit Application]
Share this job:  
Powered by  Greenhouse Logo
Read our Privacy Policy
