[Triple-i_0]

Create a Profile|Log In
   Close
 Yes No
 
Show Details
At least one job must be selected in order to apply. Apply Now
Or apply with these other sources

Apply with LinkedIn

Terms of use


━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Refer Job:

  • Share this on LinkedIn

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Add Add to Saved Jobs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Back

Big Data Scientist

Information Innovators Inc. (Triple-i) is leading the convergence
of information technology through innovation. We define, develop, and
implement solutions to solve our federal government customers’ hardest
problems, while saving them money and modernizing their systems. We are experts
in enterprise IT services, cyber security, software and data solutions, health
services, intelligence and geospatial technologies, and program
management services.  At Triple-i we understand that employees make the
company, and we are searching for the best and brightest to exceed our
customer’s expectations.  If you share our passion for delivering
innovative technology solutions, join the Triple-i team!

Job Description: 

This role combines advanced analytics and big data skills to provide services
for the USPTO’s Big Data Reservoir.  The data scientist will conduct the
analysis lifecycle clarifying problem definition, assessing data sources,
developing appropriate models and communicating conclusions. The data scientist
will, in this process, develop software in a variety of tools and data
structures.

Responsibilities/Duties:

  • Consult to the USPTO Big Data & Analytics program on opportunities from
    descriptive analysis to applied statistics to address business issues.
  • Relate functional issues to systems and data sources, supporting data
    integration, enterprise standardization and big data adoption.
  • Develop integration processes feeding source systems to the Big Data
    Reservoir, assessing existing designs and business rules to select detail
    and maintain integrity controls.
  • Assess new data sources for impact on functional issues and value to the
    integrated databases.
  • Communicate analytical results and agenda across the working team, IT
    constituents and functional sponsors.
  • Determine data requirements, metadata, integration mappings and descriptive
    results to provide structure for raw data.
  • Provide analytical services on the Big Data Reservoir, combining Hive, Solr
    and MySQL to identify anomalies, relationships and trends.
  • Propose analytic strategies and solutions that challenge and expand the
    thinking of the working team
  • Actively monitor emerging practices and products in Data Science and Big
    Data 

Required Skills/Experience:

  • Demonstrated success solving business problems with advanced analytics on
    very large databases.
  • Experience with a variety of methods including natural language processing,
    machine learning, regression, predictive analysis, anomaly detection,
    forecasting and classification methods
  • Experience in data management contributing data models, metadata
    definition, constraints and profiles.
  • Relational database experience with Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL Server, etc.
  • Substantial Unix experience in a distributed environment, checking
    processing status, resources and device issues.
  • NoSQL database experience with Casssandra, MongoDB, Solr, Neo4J, etc.
  • Experience with related object file based structures including JSON and XML
  • Analytical data design patterns common in data warehousing, data marts and
    visual reporting tools.
  • Advanced proficiency in Python, Java and SQL in a distributed environment.
  • Advanced skills in statistical programming in R, SAS or Python libraries.
  • Apply big data frameworks such as Kafka, Flink, Spark, Hive, Sqoop, and Pig
  • Ability to create structured problem statements and conceptualize potential
    solutions from rough client specifications and exploratory services.
  • Excellent formal communication skills for program deliverables including
    written documents and presentations.
  • Strong listening and informal communications skills, with the ability to
    clearly and concisely explain complex problems and technologies to
    non-expert and executive audiences.

Education/Certification Requirements:

  • Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science, Mathematics or Statistics
  • Advanced degree or certification in Applied Statistics or Analytics
    preferred.
  • Technology certification in data warehousing or programming preferred.

Clearance Requirements:

  • Candidate must be able to pass public trust clearance requirements

Location: Alexandria, VA

Triple-i is an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Employer- EOE AA M/F/
Vet/Disability.



 

 

 Send to a Friend  Close
 [spinner]  Please wait...
 
 Email this Job Ad to your friend(s) by adding their email address(es) along
 with your details to the field below:

 *Separate each recipient email address with a comma.

 Recipient email address(es):
 [                    ] *

 Your First Name:
 [                    ] *

 Your Last Name:
 [                    ] *

 Select which language the email should be sent in.

 Language: []

 
 [                                        ] 
 [                                        ] 
 [                                        ] 

 Send
 
   Close
 
 This Job Opening is already listed as one of your Interests. You cannot add
 the same Job Opening to your list of Interests more than one time.

 To see your list of Interests, navigate to the Application Status tab within
 My Profile
                                                                       [Close]

 
 Account Warning  Close
 [icon_alert]
 Log In Cancel OK
 

 

           [III]   [III]   [III]

