Skip Navigation
*
Toggle navigation Qualcomm

  • Search Jobs
  • Drop & Go
  • My Profile
  • How To Apply & FAQs

Go to Qualcomm Careers

  • 
      □ Search Jobs
      □ MyProfile




Job Detail

Job Id            E1950450
Job Title         Systems Engineer - Sensors Machine Learning (Santa Clara)
Post Date         12/12/2016
Company -         Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. - CDMA Technology
Division
Job Area          Engineering - Systems
Location          California - Santa Clara
                  Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. (QTI), in continuing our long
                  tradition of technology leadership and innovation, is looking
                  for ambitious, bright, and innovative engineers who are
                  interested in bringing exciting new sensors technology to the
                  mobile device market. This is a challenging position offering
                  the opportunity to work with leading edge sensor technologies
                  embedded in smartphones, tablets, smartwatches and other
                  consumer electronics devices. Job activities span the whole
                  product life cycle from early R&D to commercial deployment.
                  The successful candidate will work with systems, software,
                  and integration/test engineers in the QTI sensors group and
                  in related QTI teams. Job responsibilities include:
                  Specializing in the application of machine learning
                  techniques to the design of new sensors technology features.
                  Investigating emerging and new areas that apply machine
                  learning to sensors combined with other mobile device
                  technologies.
                  Leading sensors technology development projects from early
Job Overview      concepts through successful commercial deployment in mobile
                  devices.
                  Demonstrating new technology, interacting with customers and
                  sensor vendors, and partnering with internal and external
                  teams to commercialize algorithms.
                  Performing algorithm development, debugging, verification,
                  and parameter tuning with simulated and field test data.
                  Collecting field test data, as needed for these activities.
                  Developing prototypes on reference platforms.
                  Making effective engineering tradeoffs among performance,
                  memory, power consumption, and computational complexity.
                  Supporting software and test teams with deployment of sensors
                  algorithms.
                  Writing reports on algorithm evaluation results, and
                  delivering complete design and user documentation.
                  Tracking project schedules and deliverables, and keeping
                  stakeholders informed. The position is technology focused and
                  involves participation in a broad range of sensors systems
                  engineering activities within the Sensors Technologies group
                  4 years of relevant machine learning (ML) algorithm design
                  and simulation experience in industry or academia.
                  Deep knowledge of end-to-end ML development, including data
                  cleaning, feature and classifier selection, and performance
Minimum           reporting.
Qualifications    Experience with a wide variety of classifier types
                  Familiar with ML libraries and packages
                  Proficient in MATLAB and C/C++
                  Detail oriented and take a thorough and analytical approach,
                  producing complete documentation
                  Expertise with inertial, magnetic, optical and pressure
Preferred         sensors
Qualifications    Experience with Java and Android app development
                  Python proficiency
                  Required: Master's, Computer Engineering and/or Computer
                  Science and/or Electrical Engineering
                  Preferred: Doctorate, Computer Engineering and/or Computer
Education         Science and/or Electrical Engineering
Requirements


                  *LI-SRC
                  "machine learning", "deep learning", classifier, sensors,
Keywords          accelerometer, gyroscope, magnetometer, pressure, PPG, ECG,
                  MATLAB, C, C++, Android, Java, Python, SystemC, Theano,
                  Tensorflow, scikit-learn
       You will need to   login into your profile to apply for this job.
           If you are a   new user, click here to create a profile.

Messages



Return To Search Results                Send this Job to a Friend
 
To all Staffing and Recruiting Agencies: Our Careers Site is only for
individuals seeking a job at Qualcomm. Staffing and recruiting agencies and
individuals being represented by an agency are not authorized to use this site
or to submit profiles, applications or resumes, and any such submissions will
be considered unsolicited. Qualcomm does not accept unsolicited resumes or
applications from agencies. Please do not forward resumes to our jobs alias,
Qualcomm employees or any other company location. Qualcomm is not responsible
for any fees related to unsolicited resumes/applications.
EEO employer: including race, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation,
disability & veterans status.
  • About Qualcomm
  • Contact Us
  • Careers
  • Offices

Qualcomm

  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • LinkedIn
  • YouTube
  • GooglePlus
  • Pinterest

  • Terms of Use
  • Privacy
  • Cookie Policy
  • ©2013 QUALCOMM Incorporated and/or its subsidiaries. All Rights Reserved.


Nothing in this material is an offer to sell any of the components or devices
referenced herein.
References to "Qualcomm" may mean Qualcomm incorporated, or subsidiaries or
business units within the Qualcomm corporate structure, as applicable.
Materials that are as of a specific date, including but not limited to press
releases, presentations, blog posts and webcasts, may have been superseded by
subsequent events or disclosures.

