visa logo
?
Visa Talent Scout

  * Jobs
  * Help
  * REWARDS

Settings

Senior Research Scientist

New

? United States, California, Foster City

 
?
    Product

? ? ? ?
    164973 Requisition #

? ? ? ?
    Dec 01, 2016 Post Date

Apply for Job
Share this Job
Sign Up for Job Alerts

? ?Visa Research conducts applied and fundamental research, and was created to
lead the company in pushing the boundaries of payment related technologies on a
global scale. We engage with the company's numerous technology and product
teams, world-wide business partners, academics, and governments, to explore and
develop technologies that will shape the future of the payments industry and
impact the lives of billions of people.

 

Visit the Visa Research website:  http://research.visa.com/

 

We are currently focused on building world-class research teams in three key
areas: Security, Data Analytics, and Future of Payment, and we are looking for
outstanding and innovative researchers at all levels of experience as part of
the founding Security Research team.

 

Working on security research at Visa is a unique opportunity at a time when the
payments industry is undergoing a digital transformation, and with security
technologies as the critical enabler for a growing number of emerging payment
models and usage scenarios. We offer you the opportunity to be at the center of
innovation in the payments industry and set the security direction for Visa and
the future payment ecosystem.

 

The Position

 

Reporting to the VP of Security at Visa Research, as a Research Scientist you
will work with a team to conduct world-class security research and contribute
to the long-term research agenda for digital payments, as well as deliver
innovative technologies and insights to Visa's strategic products and business.
As an integral team member of the extended Research team, you will work on
research and development activities with fellow researchers, and work closely
with product and technology teams to ensure the successful creation and
application of disruptive and innovative security technologies.

 

This role represents an exciting opportunity to make key contributions to
Visa's strategic vision as the world-leading digital payments company. The
successful candidate must have an outstanding academic track record in
fundamental and applied research with participation in developing innovations.
The candidate will be a self-starter comfortable with ambiguity, with strong
attention to detail, and excellent collaboration skills.

Responsibilities 

  * Research and develop cutting-edge security technologies across a large
    spectrum of disciplines.
  * Advance the development and integration of big data infrastructure that is
    highly scalable, efficient, extensible, and secure.
  * Deliver high-impact intellectual property values through research
    publications and patents.

  * Collaborate with team members to deliver innovative technologies, insights
    and products to Visa business units to resolve their significant product
    pain-points and create new growth opportunities.

  * Collaborate with our partners in academia, industry and government on key
    initiatives to advance our security research agenda.

  * Work with team members and cross-functional teams (internal/external) that
    include representation from Technology, Product, Operations, Market
    Research, etc.

  * Foster in-depth and productive relationships at all levels with team
    members and clients internally and externally.

 

  * PhD degree in computer science, computer engineering, electrical
    engineering, mathematics, or equivalent field with a focus on security, and
    five years of experience.

  * Research experience at well-known universities or industry research labs.

  * Expertise in one or more of the following areas: mobile and distributed
    systems/cloud computing security, protocols and network security,
    cryptography and cryptanalysis, payments and cryptocurrencies, data and
    application security, malware and program analysis, user and data privacy,
    assurance and formal methods, and related fields.

  * Strong track record in research publications and impact in the research
    community.

  * Strong verbal and written communication skills.

  * Demonstrated ability to think outside the box and innovate.

  * Demonstrated research project/program management experience is a plus.

  * Experience in payments or related industry is a plus.

About Visa:

 

Common Purpose, Uncommon Opportunity.  Everyone at Visa works with one goal in
mind ? making sure that Visa is the best way to pay and be paid, for everyone
everywhere. This is our global vision and the common purpose that unites the
entire Visa team.  As a global payments technology company, tech is at the
heart of what we do: Our VisaNet network processes over 13,000 transactions per
second for people and businesses around the world, enabling them to use digital
currency instead of cash and checks. We are also global advocates for financial
inclusion, working with partners around the world to help those who lack access
to financial services join the global economy. Visa?s sponsorships, including
the Olympics and FIFA? World Cup, celebrate teamwork, diversity, and excellence
throughout the world. If you have a passion to make a difference in the lives
of people around the world, Visa offers an uncommon opportunity to build a
strong, thriving career. Visa is fueled by our team of talented employees who
continuously raise the bar on delivering the convenience and security of
digital currency to people all over the world. Join our team and find out how
Visa is everywhere you want to be.

 

?Visa will consider for employment qualified applicants with criminal histories
in a manner consistent with the requirements of Article 49 of the San Francisco
Police Code.?

 

 

 

[                    ]
My Profile

Create and manage profiles for future opportunities.

Go to Profile

My Submissions

Track your opportunities.

My Submissions

Similar Listings

Research Scientist - Security

? United States, California, Foster City

? Product

Requisition #: 164971

Director -Technical Product Manager- Engineering Excellence

? United States, California, Foster City

? Product

Requisition #: 163783

Principal Research Scientist

? United States, California, Foster City

? Product

Requisition #: 164972

View More Listings

  * Jobs
  * Help
  * Sitemap
  * REWARDS

? Visa Talent Scout. All rights reserved.
1 1
