Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist

Data Scientist

Job Locations 
    US-UT-Draper

Category 
    Technology

More information about this job:

Job Description:

We?ve launched a national search for a highly skilled Data Scientist for
Dent-A-Med, a wholly owned subsidiary of Progressive Leasing, with locations in
3 different states; Utah (HQ), Glendale, AZ, and Springdale, AR.

We have an exciting new opportunity for an innovative Data Scientist to join
Dent-A-Med?s team! The Data Scientist will conduct statistical analysis,
reporting and assist in predictive and analytical modeling for credit card
underwriting and the development of underwriting models.

  

What You'll Do:

  * Provide analytics expertise, direction and guidance to data scientists,
    technical architects and business users to enable efficient and robust
    analytics capabilities and solutions are deployed across Progressive.
  * Extract, manipulate, maintain and report on the data required for credit
    card underwriting while ensuring data integrity
  * Lead and/or support technical and non-advocate reviews and contribute to
    technology & supplier evaluations.
  * Develop, reproduce, manipulate, and customize industry changing formulas
    that will help us define the future credit card lending.
  * Assist in forecasting computational needs and capabilities to address
    future business requirements.
  * Identify, evaluate and recommend emerging advanced analytics technologies
    and methods.

Minimum Experience & Qualifications: 

  * Bachelor?s or Master?s degree in a related field (Math, Scientific,
    Economics, Statistics, etc.)
  * 5+ years expertise in multivariate analysis, casual analysis, predictive
    modeling, forecasting, and segmentation
  * Experience in statistical analysis environments such as R or SAS
  * Advanced knowledge and experience with querying languages
  * Strong skills in T-SQL, Microsoft SQL Server, and SSRS
  * Demonstrated ability applying advanced statistical modeling techniques to
    solve problems
  * Knowledge of statistics, econometrics, and other quantitative methods;
    experience performing data analysis and interpreting results
  * Ability to craft rigorous research / evaluation design approaches, based
    upon understanding of clients' research needs

Compensation, Perks & Benefits:

  * Competitive Compensation 
  * Full Health Benefits - Medical/Dental/Vision
  * 401k, Paid Time Off and Tuition Reimbursement
  * Full Service Gym, Game and Lounge Area, Basketball Court 
  * Free Healthy Snacks and Refreshments
  * Subsidized Public Transit
  * Fun and Relaxed Work Environment  

WHO IS DENT-A-MED?

Founded in 1983, Dent-A-Med, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Progressive Leasing
LLC, provides financing and billing options for merchants and consumers with
The HELPcard.  The HELPcard is a line of credit primarily serving prime and
near-prime consumers by providing flexible and affordable payment options for
various goods and services including: medical procedures, home improvement,
retail, and more!

 

WHO IS PROGRESSIVE LEASING?  

Founded in 1999, Progressive Leasing, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aaron?s Inc.
[NYSE: AAN], is a steadily growing company, already surpassing $1B in revenue.
Our scalable customer payment software products provides lease-purchase
technology solutions through 16,000+ retail locations in 46 states.

 

Progressive Leasing does not discriminate in any aspect of employment on the
basis of race, color, religion, national origin, ancestry, gender, sexual
orientation, gender identity and/or expression, age, veteran status,
disability, or any other characteristic protected by federal, state, or local
employment discrimination laws where Progressive Leasing does business. All new
hires must pass a pre-employment criminal background check and drug test

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

