Refresh (0 sec) /careers/jobs/a0I1200000JXYGXEA5/?_fb_noscript=1
Verwijderen
We gebruiken cookies om inhoud en advertenties relevanter te maken en je een
veiligere ervaring te bieden. Als je op de website klikt of op de website
navigeert, ga je ermee akkoord dat we op en buiten Facebook informatie
verzamelen via cookies. Meer informatie, zoals over hoe je je instellingen kunt
aanpassen, vind je hier: cookiebeleid.

Facebook

E-mail of telefoon     Wachtwoord
[                    ] [                    ] [Aanmelden]
                       Account vergeten?
Registreren
*
 
Work at Facebook
 
Teams
 
Locations
 
University Students
 
Benefits
 
Facebook Life
 
Our Community

Data & Analytics

[                    ]
Menlo Park
Data Scientist- Consumer Insights

(Menlo Park, CA)
Facebook's mission is to give people the power to share, and make the world
more open and connected. Through our growing family of apps and services, we're
building a different kind of company that helps billions of people around the
world connect and share what matters most to them. Whether we're creating new
products or helping a small business expand its reach, people at Facebook are
builders at heart. Our global teams are constantly iterating, solving problems,
and working together to make the world more open and accessible. Connecting the
world takes every one of us?and we're just getting started.
Facebook is seeking a data scientist for our industry-facing Consumer Insights
practice (Facebook IQ, http://insights.fb.com/) in North America. In this role
you are responsible for delivering analytics, maintaining dashboards and
pipelines that uncover unique, people-centric insights that are actionable for
advertisers and marketers. You will enjoy working with top-notch people, one of
the richest data sets in the world, cutting edge technology, and the ability to
see your insights presented on the world stage on a regular basis. We do work
on audiences (e.g. youth, multi-cultural, etc.), media (e.g., rise of
messaging), verticals (e.g. education, healthcare, etc.), markets (e.g.
profiling high growth markets) and more. You will work closely with Consumer
Insights Analysts/Researchers to leverage our internal data, the Marketing/
Activation team to tell the stories of our insights, cross-functionally with
the rest of Facebook?s Marketing Science team, and other analytics and insights
functions across Facebook (e.g. IT, product, communications, public content and
core data science). The ideal candidate will have a background in a
quantitative or technical field, will have experience working with large data
sets, and will have some experience in data-driven decision making for
marketers/advertisers. You will be curious by nature and get a kick out of
finding out fascinating insights about people that transform the advertising
industry. You are focused on results, a self-starter, and have demonstrated
success in using analytics to drive thought leadership research. This position
is based full time in our Menlo Park, CA office.

Responsibilities

  * Apply your expertise in quantitative analysis, data mining, and the
    presentation of data to uncover unique actionable insights about markets,
    audiences, industries and media.
  * Partner with Product and Engineering teams to identify opportunities to
    build solutions for Consumer Insights.
  * Inform, influence, support, and execute analysis that feeds into our
    Consumer Insights research projects.
  * Identify methods to leverage Facebook's large internal data sets to
    validate hypotheses and enhance 3rd party research work with proprietary
    data.
  * Partner with Consumer Insights Analysts/Researchers and Consumer Insights
    Marketing/Activation team to turn analysis into insight-driven stories.
  * Select and deselect analytics priorities, insights and data based on
    ability to drive our desired outcomes.
  * Inform, and align to, our larger Consumer Insights strategy and editorial
    calendar.

Minimum Qualifications

  * 4+ years experience doing quantitative analysis.
  * BA/BS in Computer Science, Math, Physics, Engineering, Statistics or other
    technical field.
  * 4+ years experience in SQL or other programming languages.
  * 4+ years of Project Management experience.
  * Experience communicating results and analyses to influence the overall
    strategy of Consumer Insights
  * 4+ years of experience in statistical analysis (e.g., hypothesis testing,
    regressions).
  * Experience manipulating data sets through statistical software (ex. R,
    SPSS) or other methods.

Preferred Qualifications

  * Masters or PhD in Computer Science, Math, Physics, Engineering, Statistics
    or other technical field
  * Experience working on quantitative research projects in the area of
    consumer insights.
  * Experience with distributed computing (Hive/Hadoop).
  * Experience working with or in support of diverse communities.

Apply
Facebook is proud to be an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action employer.
We do not discriminate based upon race, religion, color, national origin, sex
(including pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions), sexual
orientation, gender, gender identity, gender expression, transgender status,
sexual stereotypes, age, status as a protected veteran, status as an individual
with a disability, or other applicable legally protected characteristics.
If you need assistance or an accommodation due to a disability, you may contact
us at accommodations-ext@fb.com or you may call us at 1+650-308-7837.
Apply

Please limit to 3 applications.

Other positions in Analytics, Marketing Science

  * Business Integrity Associate - Policy Operations
    (Singapore)
  * Data Scientist, Infrastructure Strategy
    (Menlo Park - Seattle - Boston)
  * Head of Marketing Science, Japan
    (Tokyo)
  * Marketing Intelligence Manager
    (Menlo Park)
  * Measurement Partner Lead, EMEA
    (London)
  * Measurement Partnership Manager (APAC)
    (Singapore)
  * Principal Researcher, Facebook Media Lab
    (New York)
  * Product Researcher
    (Menlo Park - New York)
  * Product Support Specialist
    (Dublin)
  * Technical Systems Engineering Manager, Business Integrity
    (Singapore)

Back to all jobs
Facebook ? 2017Nederlands
Over ons
BedrijfsgegevensOnze Facebook-paginaRedactieVacatures
Instructies
HelpcentrumAlgemene informatie over privacyEen pagina makenMaak een advertentie
Ons beleid
gegevensbeleidVoorwaarden en beleidCookies
Meer informatiebronnen
Veiligheidscentrum voor familiesFacebook for BusinessFacebook voor
ontwikkelaars
