Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist

Data Scientist

Job ID 
    2016-44081

# of Openings Remaining 
    1

Location 
    US-DC-Washington

Category 
    Scientific

Residency Status 
    No Restrictions

Clearance 
    No Clearance Required

Employee Type 
    Regular

Desired Experience 
    ..

Time Type 
    Full Time

More information about this job

Overview

Vencore Labs (formerly Applied Communication Sciences) is a self-sustaining
research center within Vencore that provides applied research and engineering
to enable government agencies, utilities and commercial enterprises to fully
exploit the future of communications, data analytics and cyber security. From
smart grid to smart phones, intelligent highways to intelligent battlefields,
Vencore Labs? 200 scientists, engineers and analysts are consistently creating
generation-after-next technologies and solutions.  In doing so, our labs are
helping to transform traditional government research.  We connect our customers
to advanced research and technology helping them to develop solutions to their
toughest challenges.  Accelerating the arc of transformation ? from research to
engineering to products ? that?s what we focus on each day at Vencore Labs.

Responsibilities

You will be responsible for working with large and complex data sets,
evaluating existing data processes and making recommendations to enhance data
quality and effectiveness for the purpose. Exercising these responsibilities
will involve a variety of data-specific tasks, including:
? Query and extraction
? Quality and cleansing
? Transformations and relationship definition
? Meta data gathering and warehousing
? Documenting recommendations in written reports and presentations to the
customer.

Qualifications

Required Skills:

? Experience with and knowledge of data analysis and databases, including data
query and extraction, data quality and cleansing, and gathering/interpreting
meta-data. Two or more years of experience are desired, but recent graduates
will be considered.
? B.S. or higher degree, with a focused work in computer science, information
science, statistics, applied mathematics, or other related topic.
? Strong database skills with experience in SQL. Ability to create scripts/
programs for data analysis using Java, Python and/or Perl in a Unix/Linux
environment.
? Facility with document creation and editing in Microsoft Office.
? Strong language and writing skills to support creation of data dictionaries,
mapping and detailed design documentation
? Strong teaming and interpersonal skills

Options

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
Share |


            ACS is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer

#If you have previously registered with us, and would like to view your
submittal status, log in here
