Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Analyst, SCHARP

Data Analyst, SCHARP

Job ID 
    8767

Type 
    Regular Full-Time

Company 
    Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center

Location 
    US-WA-Seattle

More information about this job

Overview

The Statistical Center for HIV/AIDS Research and Prevention (SCHARP) at Fred
Hutch is seeking a Data Analyst to provide data curation, integration, and
analysis support for multiple clinical and laboratory data pipelines. The Data
Analyst will use their data management expertise to optimize and document data
design, database architecture, metadata and repository creation, data
pipelines, data storage, and data models, and to curate and annotate data using
open standards (e.g., CDISC).

 

Cures Start Here. At Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, home to three
Nobel laureates, interdisciplinary teams of world-renowned scientists seek new
and innovative ways to prevent, diagnose and treat cancer, HIV/AIDS and other
life-threatening diseases. The Center’s five scientific divisions collaborate
to form a unique environment for conducting basic and applied science. Vaccine
and Infectious Diseases Division (VIDD), works to eliminate or minimize the
impact of globally significant infectious diseases. Within VIDD is
the Statistical Center for HIV/AIDS Research & Prevention (SCHARP) which
provides statistical support and data management to researchers worldwide in
the fight against HIV/AIDS with active studies in the U.S., Africa, Latin
America, Asia and Europe. Join us and make a difference! Careers Start Here.

Responsibilities

Data Management

  • Assist in the requirements and techniques for ensuring quality data
    collection.
  • Develop and refine logical data models to ensure they support data storage,
    integration, and reporting requirements.
  • Work closely with programmers, statisticians, and other potential data
    consumers, to understand requirements for data annotation.
  • Design, develop, and maintain data mappings, data rules, and data
    transformations to populate data warehouse with source data.
  • Assist in monitoring and analyzing information and data systems to evaluate
    their performance and recommend improvements as needed.
  • Assist in testing and system validation to troubleshoot issues related to
    data management systems.
  • Use information management systems to document data models, metadata, and
    ETL configurations.

Data Curation

  • Assist with reports, analyses, and data extractions as needed.
  • Report unexpected patters or issues observed in data outputs.
  • Manage the operations for a variety of data pipelines, ensure that source
    data are loading into the data warehouse without error. Mitigate errors
    that occur.
  • Troubleshoot data-related problems and system operations as needed.

Data Governance

  • Participate in development of governance policies and processes around data
    storage, use, and access.
  • Work with project sponsors, stakeholders, and team members to ensure proper
    data access, use and data integrity per regulatory requirements and SCHARP
    policies.
  • Collaborate in the development, adoption, and adherence of data standards.
  • Provides leadership and supervision for data standards staff and training
    and support on master data process to users.

Qualifications

  • BS/BA in computer science or relevant field
  • 3 years’ experience as data architect, manager, curator, or analyst
  • Excellent understanding of data administration and management functions
  • Familiarity with database and information system technologies
  • Excellent problem-solving, communication, collaboration and leadership
    skills

Preferred Qualifications

  • Graduate degree in Computer Science, Math, Engineering, or Statistics
  • 5 years of proven, successful hands-on data curation experience
  • Must be highly detail-oriented with ability to multitask and meet deadlines
    in a high-pressure environment
  • Experience in data analysis, data warehousing or data integration
  • Strong knowledge of data structures, algorithms and object-oriented design
  • Proven success as a multi-disciplinary team member, partnering with process
    /systems managers, data consumers and IT support functions to achieve
    business goals

Options

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
Not ready to apply? Connect with us for general consideration.
[back]Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

