Skip Navigation
 
 
  Sign In to Access Your Profile
  Job Details
  View Job Cart (0) Send This Job to a Friend 
  View My Profile Print

  Scientist ll, TCR

  JOB ID     38660

  LOCATION   United States
  (S)

  CITY/      GA - Atlanta             Are you a
  CITIES                              LinkedIn
                                      Member? Use
  SPECIFIC   US-GA-ATLANTA-AOC-OFFICE your
  LOCATION                            profile to
                                      help you
  JOB TYPE   Full Time                apply.

  TRAVEL     0%                       Apply with 
  REQUIRED                            LinkedIn

  RELOCATION Yes
  PROVIDED

  JOB
  POSTING
  END DATE

  SHIFT      N/A
  
  [Submit Resume/CV]            [Add to Job Cart]

  DESCRIPTION & REQUIREMENTS:

  Position Overview:

  This position will lead a descriptive sensory
  analysis program as well as provide project
  management of sensory and consumer research in
  support of research and development.
  Specifically, the Scientist II will determine
  appropriate research methodologies, coordinate
  tests, train and moderate a descriptive
  analysis panel, interpret results and provide
  recommendations, reporting results orally and
  in written documentation.

    * Solid working knowledge of sensory and
      consumer testing techniques and principles
      including descriptive analysis (DA),
      discrimination and acceptability methods.
       Experience leading DA panels is a plus.

    * Competent in the area of quantitative
      research which involves the design and
      implementation of sensory  and consumer
      research studies, including creation of the
      research design, implementation and data
      gathering, data analysis, interpretation,
      implications and next steps. 

    * Competent in performing statistical
      analysis of sensory descriptive data and
      assessing panel performance. Working
      knowledge in the appropriate use of
      statistical techniques to analyze and
      interpret consumer data (including
      parametric and non-parametric methods,
      ANOVA, and modeling tools).  General
      understanding of the use of experimental
      designs.

    * Demonstrates the ability to assess
      technical risk used to identify, evaluate
      and mitigate project risks with a working
      knowledge of franchise and opportunity risk
      profiles.

    * General understanding of when methodologies
      need to be created or modified for unique
      project needs.

    * Experience with automated sensory data
      collection systems.

    * General understanding of importance and
      basic principles of data and intellectual
      property management.

    * Good communication skills including ability
      to write concise, informative reports and
      verbally present complex technical
      information to non-technical audiences. 
      Ability to listen and identify project
      objective and influence research plan.
      Experience in moderating group discussions.

    * Developing to become an effective influence
      manager capable of persuading clients to do
      the right research at the right time
      increasing their success rate

    * Demonstrated passion, flexibility and
      excitement for work.

  Leadership Behaviors:

    * DRIVE INNOVATION:  Generate new or unique
      solutions and embrace new ideas that help
      sustain our business (encompassing
      everything from continuous improvement to
      new product and package innovation).

    * COLLABORATE WITH SYSTEM, CUSTOMERS, AND
      OTHER STAKEHOLDERS:  Develop and leverage
      relationships with stakeholders to
      appropriately stretch and impact the System
      (Company and Bottler).

    * ACT LIKE AN OWNER:  Deliver results,
      creating value for our brands, our System,
      our customers and key stakeholders.

    * INSPIRE OTHERS:  Inspire people to deliver
      our mission and 2020 Vision, demonstrate
      passion for the business and give people a
      reason to believe anything is possible.

    * DEVELOP SELF AND OTHERS:  Develop self and
      support others? development to achieve full
      potential.

   Education: Bachelor's Degree in Food Science
  with Sensory Coursework.  May consider other
  degrees in science, behavioral psychology or
  statistics. 

  Related Work Experience:  Minimum of 1 -2 years
  .

   

   





  Honesty and integrity have always been
  cornerstone values of The Coca-Cola Company.
  Our passion for people of integrity mirrors our
  spirited drive for total quality in our brands.
  These and other elements allow the company to
  sustain strategic practices and drive business
  performance. The Personnel Integrity Assurance
  Program is another step toward making The
  Coca-Cola Company the premier workplace. This
  process includes a pre-employment background
  investigation that applies to all applicants
  employees and contractors of the company. The
  scope of this inquiry may cover such elements
  as education employment history a criminal
  history check reference checks and a
  pre-employment drug screen. Designated
  countries or sensitive positions within the
  company may have more stringent standards.

  At The Coca-Cola Company you can cultivate your
  career in a challenging and dynamic
  environment. We are the largest manufacturer
  and distributor of nonalcoholic drinks in the
  world-selling more than 1 billion drinks a day.
  Unlock your full potential with a
  future-focused company that is known and
  respected throughout the world.



  We are an Equal Opportunity Employer and do not
  discriminate against any employee or applicant
  for employment because of race, color, sex,
  age, national origin, religion, sexual
  orientation, gender identity and/or expression,
  status as a veteran, and basis of disability or
  any other federal, state or local protected
  class.

  Move   Back to top
  Up
  View Job Cart (0) Send This Job to a Friend 
  View My Profile Print
jobDetails
