  • English (United States)English (United States)French (Canada)Français
    (Canada)

  • Contact Us
  • Customers
  • Suppliers

Olin Chlor Alkali
[                    ]  

  • English (United States)English (United States)
  • French (Canada)Français (Canada)

Toggle navigation

  • About Us
      □ Overview
      □ Our Culture
      □ Our History
      □ Awards and Honors
      □ The Olin Advantage
      □ Doing Business with Olin
      □ Tech Support
  • Products
      □ Overview
      □ Chlorine
      □ Hydrochloric Acid
      □ Potassium Hydroxide
      □ Sodium Hydroxide (Caustic Soda)
      □ Sodium Hypochlorite (Bleach)
      □ Co-Products
          ☆ Hydrogen
          ☆ Sodium Chloride (Salt)
          ☆ Dilute Sulfuric Acid
  • Locations
      □ Plants at a Glance
      □ Augusta, GA
      □ Charleston, TN
      □ Henderson, NV
      □ McIntosh, AL
      □ Niagara Falls, NY
      □ St. Gabriel, LA
      □ Santa Fe Springs, CA
      □ Tracy, CA
      □ Becancour, QC
  • Sustainability
      □ Overview
      □ Responsible Care
      □ The Goal Is Zero
      □ Community Advisory Panels
  • Careers
      □ Overview
      □ Benefits
      □ Upcoming Events
      □ Career Paths
      □ Search Openings
  • Olinology

[Olin-Caree]

Careers

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Research Scientist

Location:                                  US-TX-Freeport
Job Code:                                  4932
Department:                                Technical Services
Employment Duration:                       Full time
# of openings:                             1
Job Brief:                                 Research Scientist
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Description

                              Research Scientist

The Olin Epoxy, a division of Olin Corporation, has an opportunity for a
Research Scientist in our Epoxy R&D group located in Freeport, TX.  The Epoxy
business is an integrated, leading global supplier of epoxy components and
formulated systems for a variety of growing application areas, with a strong
record of innovation and value creation. The research scientist as part of a
global R&D and TS&D team, will be responsible for new product and breakthrough
technology development.
Critical responsibilities include:

  • Planning and executing R&D projects and initiatives in the industrial
    composites market
  • Conducting research and analysis on thermoset chemistry, especially on
    Epoxy
  • Translating customer needs into key structure/property and mechanism
    knowledge for new product development and existing product improvement
  • Collaborating across functions/groups as needed to drive project success
    and successful commercialization
  • Internal and external communication of technology and project results
  • Securing intellectual property on key technologies and compositions
  • Working externally to advance Olin epoxy's reputation as a leading science
    and technology company in the Epoxy industries.
  • This position requires 10-20% of the time travelling to customers in North
    America.

Qualifications:

  • 2-5 years of industrial experience, preferably working with thermoset
    chemistry in industrial or FRP composites is highly desired.
  • Experience with composite processes (e.g. infusion, filament winding,
    pultrusion, etc.), and thermoset formulation, is desired.
  • Experience with modeling of composite systems (e.g. F.E.A.), is a plus.
  • New product development experience and a track record of successful
    commercialization are essential .
  • Familiarity with stage gate processes for new product development to
    deliver project goals in a timely manner
  • Ability to collaborate globally and cross-functionally on technical
    projects; communicating effectively regarding technology development plans
    and outcomes.
  • Strong interpersonal skills, business acumen, and ability to generate value
    for both Olin and the customers.
  • Self motivated, with an ability to manage multiple projects in parallel.
  • Good written and oral communication skills in English.
  • A demonstrated track record of effective documentation of results in data
    books, reports, patent disclosures, and external publications.
  • A minimum requirement for this U.S. - based position is the ability to work
    legally in the United States on a permanent basis (must be a U.S. citizen,
    U.S. Permanent Resident or qualifying Asylee / Refugee ).

Education:

  • This position requires advanced science degree in Chemistry, Chemical
    Engineering, Polymer Science/Engineering, or Material Science. Ph.D. is
    preferred. 

Olin Corporation is a leading vertically-integrated global manufacturer and
distributor of chemical products and a leading U.S. manufacturer of ammunition.
The chemical products produced include chlorine and caustic soda, vinyls,
epoxies, chlorinated organics, bleach and hydrochloric acid.  Winchester's
principal manufacturing facilities produce and distribute sporting ammunition,
law enforcement ammunition, reloading components, small caliber military
ammunition and components, and industrial cartridges.

Olin offers:

  • Competitive compensation and comprehensive benefits
  • An opportunity to make a real difference in the manufacturing industry with
    a small company environment that gives employees a chance to be seen,
    appreciated and grow in responsibility.
  • A variety of jobs and career paths that will appeal to those who are drawn
    to a creative, energetic and open workplace environment.

                                        

           Olin is an Equal Opportunity Employer.  M/W/Vet/Disabled.

 

                                        

 


[Apply for this Position]                                    [Send to a Friend]

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Are you a returning applicant?


Previous Applicants:
                                       Email: [                    ]
[                    ] [                    ]
                                    Password: [                    ]
[Add to My Jobs]

If you do not remember your password click here.


Back to Search Results

New Search


                                                               Powered By Taleo



Testimonials

 1.
 2.
 3.

    "Every day is a new adventure that challenges me. Olin puts great value in
    its people and gives them ample opportunities to keep developing." Kristine
    , Four years, Charleston, Customer Service Representative

    Olin ... promotes an open-door environment where I am able to express my
    ideas and use my skills and knowledge to achieve company goals.

    Raul , McIntosh, Maintenance Supervisor

    Many challenges and good support! They trust me.

    Tommy , Becancour, Maintenance Engineer

    There's always another challenge to push my bar a little higher, and here
    you can truly see the effect of the individual on the whole.

    Maxine , Tracy, Office Coordinator

    I can freely recommend a career with Olin Chlor Alkali Products. It has
    been very good for me and my family.

    Butch , 45 years, Charleston, Principal Engineer

    I like working at Olin because I work with a great group of people.

    Antoine , Eight years, Becancour, Loading Supervisor

    Olin is large enough to get access to resources and opportunities and yet
    small enough to offer that "family" feel.

    Eric , Becancour, Human Resources Manager

    Olin has treated me extremely well over the years and given me
    opportunities in everything from operations to marketing. It's a great
    company.

    Ken , 32 years, Cleveland, Bleach Marketing

    Working at Olin, I know I am involved in important work that improves the
    quality of life for millions of people.

    John , 25 years, Santa Fe Springs, Production

In case of an emergency, in the US, contact CHEMTREC at 1-800-424-9300 or in
Canada, contact Newalta at 1-800-567-7455.

About Olin Chlor Alkali

Olin Chlor Alkali Products, based in
Cleveland, Tenn., is a leading North
American manufacturer of chlorine,
caustic soda, industrial bleach,
hydrochloric acid, potassium hydroxide,
hydrogen and related products.

Read More

Other Links

  • Customers
  • Suppliers
  • Olin.com

Site Map

  • About Us
  • Products
  • Locations
  • Sustainability
  • Careers
  • Olinology
  • Contact Us

Copyright © 2015 Olin Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

  • Legal
  • Privacy Policy

