Skip Navigation
[152]

[163]

  Sign In to access application status,
  saved documents and Saved Searches
  Job Details
  New Search View Job Cart (0) Send This Job to a
  Friend View My Account
  Statistical Research Specialist

  Facility: 990 Bannock St.   

  Area of Interest: Research Shift Type: Day

  Requisition ID: 45947      Language:

  Employment Type: Full-Time Minimum:
                             $53,323.488

  Experience Required: Less  Mid-point:
  than 1 year                $66,654.367

  Education Required:        Maximum:
  Bachelors Degree           $79,985.242

  Certification/Licensure/Registrations
  Required:
  
  [Apply Now]                   [Add to Job Cart]
  Job Summary
  The Research Department of Rocky Mountain
  Poison and Drug Center, a division of Denver
  Health, is accepting applications for a full
  time Statistical Research Specialist

  The SRS gathers data from disparate sources,
  develops and maintains database applications,
  and analyzes using qualitative and quantitative
  (statistical) methods; assist research
  director, assistant research director and other
  project members in data analysis planning,
  analysis, and reporting.

  This would be an ideal opportunity for anyone
  with a desire to be a part of a team that is a
  leader in public health research. Some of our
  research studies include, but are not limited
  to, prescription drug abuse, analgesics
  toxicity (over-the-counter pain relievers),
  Phase II and Phase III drug trials for new
  antidotes, antivenom research studies (snakes,
  spiders, etc.) and literature reviews.

  The Researched, Abuse, Diversion and
  Addiction-Related Surveillance (RADARS®) System
  provides timely and geographic-specific data to
  the pharmaceutical industry, regulatory
  agencies, policymakers and medical/public
  health officials to aid in understanding trends
  in the abuse, misuse, and diversion of
  prescription drugs in the United States. The
  RADARS System is composed of multiple signal
  detection systems and a Scientific Advisory
  Board and is an independent operation of the
  Rocky Mountain Poison & Drug Center (RMPDC).

  The RADARS System measures rates of abuse,
  misuse and diversion throughout the United
  States, contributing to the understanding of
  trends and aiding the development of effective
  interventions. These data assist pharmaceutical
  companies in fulfillment of their regulatory
  obligations such as risk evaluation and
  mitigation strategies (REMS).

  For more info on RADARS System: www.radars.org.

  Minimum Qualifications
  Education: BS or BA Degree Computer Science,
  Public Health or Epidemiology) with significant
  training in research and statistical evaluation
  methods.  Masters preferred.

  Experience:  Typically, one (1) years
  experience conducting applied research or
  program evaluation in community and/or
  organizational setting or equivalent
  combination of education and experience may be
  considered.  Experience with Toyota Lean
  systems preferred.

  Knowledge, Skills & Abilities:  Excellent
  knowledge with database management systems
  including Access and Excel. Requires
  proficiency in SAS (Statistical Analysis
  System) or SPSS (Statistical Package for Social
  Sciences).  Prior experience with SQL queries
  preferred.  Organization skills necessary for
  successful completion and documentation of
  simultaneous projects. Ability to perform work
  that is detailed and routine with minimal
  supervision. Independence in problem solving
  coupled with knowledge of when to ask for
  assistance.  Ability to summarize detailed
  information in an organized, concise manner.

  Certificate/License/Registration:  None
  required.

  Denver Health is an integrated, efficient,
  high-quality academic health care system that
  is considered a model for the nation. The
  Denver Health system includes the Rocky
  Mountain Regional Level I Trauma Center, a
  525-bed acute care medical center, Denver’s 911
  emergency medical response system, 8 family
  health centers, 15 school-based health centers,
  the Rocky Mountain Poison and Drug Center, the
  Denver Public Health Department, an HMO, and
  The Denver Health Foundation.

  As Colorado’s primary safety net institution,
  Denver Health is a mission-driven organization
  that has provided more than $3.3 billion in
  care for the uninsured in the last ten years.
  Denver Health is a leader in performance and
  quality improvements and remains financially
  secure, in part, due to its nationally
  recognized implementation of lean principles in
  healthcare. Denver Health is a major resource
  to the community, serving approximately 185,000
  individuals and 67,000 children a year.

  Located just south of downtown Denver, Denver
  Health is just minutes away from many of the
  cultural and recreational activities Denver has
  to offer.

  We strongly support diversity in the workforce
  and Denver Health is an equal opportunity
  employer (EOE).

  “Denver Health is committed to provide equal
  treatment and equal employment opportunities to
  all applicants and employees. Denver Health is
  an Equal Opportunity Employer and does not
  discriminate against any employee or applicant
  for employment because of race, color, sex,
  age, national origin, religion, sexual
  orientation, gender identity, status as a
  veteran, and basis of disability or any other
  federal, state or local protected class.”

  Move   Back to top
  Up
  New Search View Job Cart (0) Send This Job to a
  Friend View My Account
[157]
