[82f653fa-7]

Data Scientist

Washington, DC
Advanced Data Analytics
Full-time
Apply for this job

Note: There are no current openings for this position, but we will gladly
accept and review applications to consider for future opportunities.

QxBranch is seeking a data scientist with a strong background in machine
learning and the ability to perform in client-facing roles. Team members will
have the opportunity to develop and deploy advanced data analytics models for
diverse problems. The data science team is primarily located in Washington DC,
with remote work available in some circumstances.
QxBranch data scientists are effective working in team environments,
independently formulating and developing creative solutions, and regularly
interacting with clients.

Qualifications typically include a Bachelor of Science with relevant industry
experience.

Responsibilities
?    Prototype, develop, and deploy complex analytics models for client systems
?    Organize, manage, and curate large and complex datasets
?    Work on an internationally distributed team, with schedule flexibility
?    Deliver high quality technical outcomes while adhering to cost and
schedule constraints
?    Continue technical and professional development to ensure QxBranch
technology remains on the cutting edge

Education and experience requirements
?    Proficiency in Python and common machine learning packages such as
scikit-learn, NLTK, and Theano
?    Competence in all portions of the data analytics pipeline, including
ingest, cleaning, feature extraction, modeling, statistical validation, and
visualization / reporting
?    Bachelor of Science or higher in engineering, science, or mathematics,
with specializations related to computer science preferred
?    Minimum of 3 years relevant experience, including internships, part-time
positions, and graduate level education

Desired skills
?    Expertise in one or more of: natural language processing, probabilistic
modeling, time series analysis, anomaly detection, deep learning, behavioral
analysis, causal analysis
?    Analytics experience in finance, insurance, cyber security, and/or sports
?    Proficiency in other analytics technologies, such as R, SQL, CUDA, Hadoop,
and Spark
?    Experience with Dataiku's Data Science Studio

QxBranch maintains world-class skills in systems engineering, data analytics,
and risk analysis across multiple domains. We provide our customers with data
analytics as a service, assured software solutions, and identification and
development of quantum computing applications. The company is a global leader
in developing quantum computing software and algorithms.
QxBranch is headquartered in Washington, D.C., with offices in Hong Kong,
London, and Adelaide. Our clients include investment banks, hedge funds, and
aerospace & defense firms. Washington Life Magazine named QxBranch to its 2015
?Tech 25? list.

Apply for this job

QxBranch Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
