Skip to Main Content

  * austintexas.gov
  * Airport
  * Library
  * Austin Energy
  * Austin Water
  * Convention Center
  * Visitors Bureau
  * AustinGO 2.0

AustinTexas.Gov - the easy way to navigate your city

  * Pay Online
  * Services
  * Calendar
  * Media Center
  * Departments
  * 311

  * Home
  * Search Jobs
  * Create Account
  * Log In
  * Help

 Application Guide

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  * Login Issues?
  * City of Austin Home
  * City of Austin HR
  * City of Austin Job Titles, Descriptions and Pay Scales
  * Employment Offices
  * Employment Links
  * eCareer FAQs
  * VETERANS
  * Internships
  * IMAGINE AUSTIN

 

Connect With Us

#Facebook

#Twitter

Environmental Scientist Senior

Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary
documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening.
 To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button.

If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the
Bookmark link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your
records, click on the Print Preview link.


PLEASE NOTE: Mozilla Firefox? is the preferred Browser, version 3.5 and later

Bookmark this Posting | Print Preview | Apply for this Job

Position Information

Position Information

 Posting Title   Environmental Scientist Senior
Job Requisition  COA076029
     Number
Position Number  116610
    Job Type     Full-Time
 Division Name   Building Services Department
                 Bachelor's degree in Environmental Science, Life Science,
                 Natural Science or related field plus six years of relevant
                 experience.
                 Master's degree in Environmental Science, Life Science,
                 Natural Science or related field plus four years of relevant
                 experience.
    Minimum      One additional year of experience may substitute for one year
 Qualifications  of the required education with a maximum substitution of four
                 years.
                 Licenses or Certifications:
                 None



                 This position will implement and/or manage environmental
                 protection and assessment project/programs Citywide. The
                 position is responsible for assisting in the management of
                 high quality, multi-phase environmental projects on schedule
                 and within budget in support of the asbestos, lead and mold
                 management program. Additionally, the position is responsible
                 for field investigations, State required notifications, review
                 of consultant submittals, drafting of work requests responses,
                 coordination of meetings with consultants and on-site
                 sampling.

                 Please describe your specific experience as it relates to the
                 minimum and preferred qualifications of the position. Please
                 be thorough in completing the employment application and list
                 all experience that is relevant to this position, including
                 your supervisory and/or leadership experience if applicable.
                 This is the criteria that will be used to select candidates
                 for interview, and the starting salary will be based on
                 overall relevant experience.

                 Please note that your resume will not substitute for a
                 complete employment application. Statements such as ?see
                 resume? will not be accepted.

                 This position may require working overtime and/or working
    Notes to     outside of normal business hours as dictated by business
   Applicants    needs.

                 This position may require a skills assessment. This assessment
                 will be conducted as part of the interview process. The skills
                 assessment is test(Kenexa Prove-It) administered by the City
                 of Austin Human Resources Department at the DeWitty training
                 center.

                 A driving record verification will be conducted. Applicants
                 for positions for which City driving is an essential function
                 must meet the standards of the program: age 18 or older,
                 current applicable driver?s license, proof of insurability,
                 and no more than six (6) points assessed on Driver Record
                 Evaluation (DRE) based on Department of Public Safety (DPS)
                 Driver Record Report. This position falls under the COA safe
                 driver program requirements.

                 If you are selected for hire:

                 You must provide proof of education which may include your
                 official college transcript, High School diploma, GED or
                 equivalent degree and your professional licenses and
                 certifications.

                 Veterans must provide a copy of their DD214.

   Pay Range     $28.95 ? $37.50

                 Monday through Friday, 7:15 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
     Hours
                 Evening, weekend and/or holiday work may be required.

 Job Close Date  01/17/2017
Type of Posting  External
   Department    Building Services
    Regular/     Regular
   Temporary
Grant Funded or  Not Applicable
Pooled Position
    Category     Professional
    Location     Building Services Department, 411 Chicon, Austin TX 78701
                 Bachelor?s Degree in Environmental Science, Life Science,
                 Natural Science or related field preferred.

                 Experience managing scheduling, budgets and quality of
                 environmental projects.

                 Experience performing on-site field evaluations, testing, and
                 inspections for environmental (e.g. asbestos, lead and/or
                 mold) projects.

                 Contract management experience.
   Preferred
 Qualifications  Current Texas Department of State Health Services (TDSHS)
                 Asbestos Inspector license with the ability to obtain TDSHS
                 Individual Asbestos Consultant license within one (1) year of
                 hire date.

                 Current Texas Department of State Health Services (TDSHS) Lead
                 Abatement Project Designer license or ability to obtain within
                 one (1) year of hire date.

                 Current Texas Department of State Health Services (TDSHS) Mold
                 Assessment Consultant license or the ability to obtain within
                 one (1) year of hire date.

                 Essential duties and functions, pursuant to the Americans with
                 Disabilities Act, may include the following. Other related
                 duties may be assigned.
                 1.Perform project planning, prioritization, and tracking of
                 technical resources
                 2.Conduct site selection and study design
                 3.Operate/calibrate equipment
                 4.Perform chemical, biological and physical testing and
                 classification
                 5.Interpret water quality, flow and biological data
                 6.Conduct training in sampling and analysis
    Duties,      7.Organize and prepare reports and memos based on data
 Functions and   evaluation
Responsibilities 8.Review and interpret policies, codes, regulations and
                 ordinances
                 9.Perform environmental assessments on proposed capital
                 projects, systems, programs and development plans
                 10.Assist in development of code changes and rules development
                 Responsibilities- Supervision and/or Leadership Exercised:
                 SUPERVISORY RESPONSIBILITIES

                 *An employee at the Environmental Scientist Sr. level does not
                 supervise, but may provide leadership, guidance, and technical
                 support to others.

                 Must possess required knowledge, skills, abilities and
                 experience and be able to explain and demonstrate, with or
                 without reasonable accommodations, that the essential
                 functions of the job can be performed.
                 Knowledge of applicable processes, techniques, and methods.
                 Knowledge of city practice, policy, and procedures.
   Knowledge,    Skill in handling conflict and uncertain situations.
   Skills and    Skill in handling multiple tasks and prioritizing.
   Abilities     Skill in using computers and related software applications.
                 Skill in data analysis and problem solving.
                 Ability to establish and maintain effective communication and
                 working relationships with city employees and the public.
                 Ability to work with frequent interruptions and changes in
                 priorities.
                 Ability to train others. 

 Does this job
   require a
    criminal     This position requires a criminal background investigation
   background
 investigation?
                 City of Austin is committed to compliance with the American
                 Disabilities Act. If you require reasonable accommodation
                 during the application process or have a question regarding an
                 essential job function, please call (512) 974-3210 or TTY
                 (512) 974-2445.

                 The City of Austin will not discriminate against any applicant
    EEO/ADA      or employee based on race, creed, color, national origin, sex,
                 gender identity, age, religion, veteran status, disability, or
                 sexual orientation. In addition, the City will not
                 discriminate in employment decisions on the basis of an
                 individual?s AIDS, AIDS Related Complex, or HIV status; nor
                 will the City discriminate against individuals who are
                 perceived to be at risk of HIV infection, or who associate
                 with individuals who are believed to be at risk.

Information For  the department, are in good standing and meet both the minimum
City Employees:  and preferred qualifications, then you will receive an initial
 If you are an   interview.
employee within

Supplemental Questions

Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*).

 1. * This position requires a Bachelor's degree in Environmental Science, Life
    Science, Natural Science or related field plus six (6) years of relevant
    experience or a Master's degree in Environmental Science, Life Science,
    Natural Science or related field plus four (4) years of relevant
    experience. One (1) additional year of experience may substitute for one
    (1) year of the required education with a maximum substitution of four
    years. Do you meet these requirements?
      + Yes
      + No
 2. * Please describe how you meet these minimum qualifications. Please detail
    how you meet the educational requirements (if applicable), account for the
    years of related experience (if applicable), and explain any substitutions
    of experience for education, or vice-versa (if applicable).

    (Open Ended Question)

 3. * Do you have a current Texas Department of State Health Services (TDSHS)
    Asbestos Inspector license?
      + Yes
      + No
 4. * Do you have a current Texas Department of State Health Services (TDSHS)
    Individual Asbestos Consultant license or the ability to obtain within one
    (1) year of hire date?
      + Yes
      + No
 5. * Do you have a current Texas Department of State Health Services (TDSHS)
    Lead Abatement Project Designer license or the ability to obtain within one
    (1) year of hire date?
      + Yes
      + No
 6. * Do you have a current Texas Department of State Health Services (TDSHS)
    Mold Assessment Consultant license or the ability to obtain within one (1)
    year of hire date?
      + Yes
      + No
 7. * How many years of experience do you have in managing scheduling, budgets,
    and quality of environmental projects?
      + Less than 1 year
      + 1-3 years
      + 3-6 years
      + More than 6 years
 8. * Please describe your experience managing the scheduling, budgets, and
    quality of environmental projects.

    (Open Ended Question)

 9. * How many years of experience do you have performing on-site field
    evaluations, testing, and inspections for environmental (e.g. asbestos,
    lead and/or mold) projects?
      + Less than 1 year
      + 1-3 years
      + 3-6 years
      + More than 6 years
10. * Please describe your experience performing on-site field evaluations,
    testing, and inspections for environmental (e.g. asbestos, lead and/or
    mold) projects.

    (Open Ended Question)

11. * How many years of experience do you have in contract management?
      + Less than 1 year
      + 1-3 years
      + 3-6 years
      + More than 6 years
12. * Describe your experience in contract management.

    (Open Ended Question)

13. * Do you have a Texas Class C driver's license or the ability to acquire
    within 90 days of hire?
      + Yes
      + No
14. * If selected as a top candidate, do you agree to a criminal background
    investigation?
      + Yes
      + No

Optional & Required Documents

Required Documents

 1. Resume

Optional Documents

  * Pay Online
  * Calendar
  * Media Center
  * FAQ
  * Contact Us
  * Site Map
  * Legal Notices
  * Privacy Policy
  * 311

