Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

ABI/OBP Data Scientist

ABI/OBP Data Scientist

Job ID 
    2015-41501

# of Openings Remaining 
    2

Location 
    US-CA-San Diego

Category 
    Information Technology

Residency Status 
    U.S. Citizenship Required

Clearance 
    Top Secret/SCI

Employee Type 
    Regular

Desired Experience 
    ..

Time Type 
    Full Time

More information about this job:

Overview:

Vencore is a proven provider of information solutions, engineering and
analytics for the U.S. Government. With more than 40 years of experience
working in the defense, civilian and intelligence communities, Vencore designs,
develops and delivers high impact, mission-critical services and solutions to
overcome its customers most complex problems.

Headquartered in Chantilly, Virginia, Vencore employs 3,800 engineers,
analysts, IT specialists and other professionals who strive to be the best at
everything they do.

Vencore is an AA/EEO Employer - Minorities/Women/Veterans/Disabled

Responsibilities:

The Data Scientist will assess and provide recommendations for optimal
enterprise constructs and methodologies to provision for storage and query
information from multiple cloud and non-cloud environments that consist of
complex, persistent objects and associated relationships and behaviors.
 Communicate data analysis results in a clear and concise manner to a variety
of technical and non-technical audiences.  Prepare project reports detailing
actionable insights, recommendations and courses of actions to operationalize
those recommendations as well as the tasks necessary to operationalize those
recommendations.  Merge data sources together, ensure consistency of data-sets,
frame visualization techniques to aid in understanding data, build mathematical
models using the data, present and communicate the data insights/findings to
various team members and leadership. Examine how data from multiple disparate
sources creates relationships, patterns, associations and other factors that
drive data sets and visualizations.

Qualifications:

Required:
- TS/SCI security clearance
- ABI/OBP experience
 
Desired:
- Experience with Hadoop frameworks such as Hortonworks and Cloudera as well as
associated open source tools (MapReduce, Impala etc.)
- Experience w Pig
- 3+ yrs as an J2EE architect with strong experience in core Java
- Strong knowledge of programming and scripting languages such as Java, Python,
Ruby, or R
- Experience with major big data technologies and frameworks including but not
limited to Hadoop, MapReduce,  Hive, HBase, Oozie, Mahout, Flume, ZooKeeper,
MongoDB, and Cassandra
- Experience with database technology such as Vertica, Teradata, Netezza,
Accumulo, MongoDB, NoSQL, etc.
- Experience with performance tuning, systems management, backup/recovery/
disaster recovery scenarios
- Hands-on experience in the following: Python, php, MATLAB, SAS, Numpy/Scipy
- Experience working with data generated from smart devices, web, mobile and
social media and build “mash ups” 
- 3 years of experience delivering big data solutions, including system
architecture
- Experience with cloud architecture and implementation
- Experience working with noisy intelligence and operational data sets from
multiple disparate sources to include unstructured, structured and sensor data
in many disciplines such as all-source reporting, geographic information
systems, biometrics,  IMINT, SIGINT, HUMINT and OSINT
- A technical degree in computer science or engineering
Certifications desired: IAT II – Security + CE; Big Data; Hadoop

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
Share |


          Vencore is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer

●Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

