Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist

Data Scientist

Requisition ID 
    2016-8287

Business Area 
    Group Units

Location 
    US-CA-Oakland

Category/Discipline 
    Consulting

Location Details 
    ..

Position Type 
    Permanent employment

Close Date (dd/mm/yyyy) 
    ..

Company & Business Area Description

Join our team of data scientists and full stack software engineers in the
Analytic Innovation Centre to enrich industry data with world-class expert
knowledge across a broad range of datasets from the Maritime, Oil & Gas, Energy
and Life Science industries.


Driven by our purpose of safeguarding life, property and the environment, DNV
GL enables organisations to advance the safety and sustainability of their
business. We provide classification and technical assurance along with software
and independent expert advisory services to the maritime, oil & gas and energy
(renewable energie, power distribution and end user energy efficiency)
industries. We also provide certification services to customers across a wide
range of industries.

Combining leading technical and operational expertise, risk methodology and
in-depth industry knowledge, DNV GL empowers our customers’ decisions and
actions with trust and confidence. We continuously invest in research and
collaborative innovation to provide customers and society with operational and
technological foresight.

 

Operating since 1864, DNV GL operates globally in more than 100 countries with
our 15,000 professionals dedicated to helping our customers make the world
safer, smarter and greener.


DNV GL is today in the middle of a digital transformation as are the industries
we operate in. As part of an initiative to accelerate this process, we have
established an Analytic Innovation Centre that builds and scales analytic
competence and further develops our Big Data enabled analytic platform.

Local Unit & Position Description

DNV GL is seeking an additional Data Scientist to join our team of data
scientists and software developers in the Analytic Innovation Centre to
leverage Big Data Analytic capabilities to transform our global services across
Maritime, Oil & Gas, Energy and Life science (food and Health) industries. 
This position is located in our Oakland, CA office.


Our data scientists develop our next generation digital services and tools for
the benefit of DNV GL and our customers.

The successful candidate will work in a strong multidisciplinary team of data
scientists, software developers and domain experts. This team will run complex
projects transforming existing and developing new digital services and tools
across all of DNV GL‘s industries.

 

Tasks may include

  • Establish and implement end to end proof of concepts and analytic
    applications
  • Create innovative methodologies for extracting value from data
  • Encode and implement domain knowledge in algorithms, and use machine
    learning to find new knowledge from existing datasets
  • Work with open source tools in the Hadoop ecosystem
  • Program and analyse data using technologies and languages like Spark, Hive,
    Python, Scala, R, Scala and  Java

Position Qualifications

Qualifications

 

  • MSc or above in computer science, statistics, physics, mathematics or a
    related field with a focus on data analysis required (NOTE: we also have
    open a Senior Data Scientist role which requires a PhD - see job #
    2016-8287)
  • 3+ years hands-on experience in analyzing scientific data, data analytics,
    machine learning, statistics or experiment design
  • Strong programming and analytic skills
  • Experience handling and analyzing time series data
  • Experience with two or more of the following:
      □ Experience with Hadoop ecosystem tools such as Hive and Spark etc.
      □ Experience with languages and technologies such as Spark, Hive, Python,
        R and  Java
      □ Experience with scalable noSQL databases, time series databases and
        search engines (like MongoDB, OpenTSDB, Elasticsearch, etc.) 
      □ Experienced user of Unix/Linux and the corresponding standard command
        line tools
      □ Knowledge and experience of microservice architecture style
      □ Experience developing and consuming RESTful API services
      □ Experience using code versioning systems (like Git)
      □ Experience in building and leading high-performing teams

Personal qualities:

  • Excellent analytical skills required; ability to see commonalities among
    very different problems
  • Solution oriented, with the ability to formulate problems and engineer
    effective solutions across domains and disciplines
  • Strong communication skills, ability to communicate with the scientific
    community as well as to the business community in our industries
  • Excellent written and verbal English communication skills

We conduct pre-employment background check and drug test

 

Opportunities Beyond Business

 

Our mission is to safeguard life, property and the environment. By joining us,
you will work towards our meaningful vision: to make a global impact for a safe
and sustainable future. DNV GL offers a congenial working environment,
competitive salaries, and an exceptional benefits package.

 

DNV GL is an Equal Opportunity Employer and gives consideration for employment
to qualified applicants without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex,
national origin, disability or protected veteran status.  For more information
about your rights under the law, see: http://www1.eeoc.gov/employers/upload/
eeoc_self_print_poster.pdf


Local employment conditions apply.

 

Please visit our website at www.dnvgl.com

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
Interested in this opportunity?


Socialize this job opportunity to a friend, colleague, or family member:
●Back to Home/Start Page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

