[pcori-logo]
Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute
« PCORI.org
PCORI Careers

  • PCORI Jobs

Your user session will timeout in 5 minutes. Please click OK to continue with
your application.

Data Analyst, Evaluation and Analysis

Tracking Code
    477-858
Job Description
   
    *Please submit a cover letter with your resume. Only applications with
    cover letters will be considered for this position.

     

    Department: Evaluation and Analysis

    Reports to: Associate Director, Evaluation and Analysis

     

    Position Summary

     

    The Data Analyst will contribute to the implementation of PCORI’s research
    agenda, including assisting with carrying out the mission of PCORI’s
    Evaluation & Analysis Program. The Data Analyst works independently with
    guidance, and collaboratively to develop and implement activities in the
    following areas: statistical analysis of data collected through PCORI’s
    Evaluation & Analysis program, including analysis of data related to the
    PCORI Merit Review process, funding portfolio, and awardees, as well as
    analysis of survey data from a variety of populations (patients,
    clinicians, general public).  The Data Associate assists in designing and
    implementing new initiatives to support PCORI evaluation activities.

     

    Duties and Responsibilities

     

    General Program Responsibilities:

          ☆ Develop and maintain multiple datasets, including appropriate
            documentation of data collection protocols, code books, data
            cleaning, and analytic code.
          ☆ Design and execute data analytic plans.
          ☆ Prepare reports based on analyses conducted, providing detailed
            explanation of methods used and clear summary of findings.
          ☆ Use findings from literature review and discussion with PCORI staff
            and others to identify promising areas to pursue to advance PCORI’s
            goals for evaluation of PCORI practices.  
          ☆ Participate in long and short-term program development, planning,
            and evaluation of PCORI initiatives and programs.
          ☆ Collaborate with all other PCORI departments, including Science,
            Contracts Management, Finance, Engagement, and Communications. Work
            with Office of Chief Science Officer and Office of Executive
            Director on evaluation of key strategic initiatives.

     Portfolio Analysis:

          ☆ Provide thought leadership for evaluation of the PCORI funding
            portfolio to assist Science Program staff in active portfolio
            management. 
          ☆ Assist with development of PCORI analyses related to awardee
            performance.
          ☆ Produce reports, presentations and related materials regarding
            PCORI’s funding portfolio.
          ☆ Assist with identifying and implementing evaluation plans related
            to PCORI’s portfolio.
          ☆ Contribute to active dissemination of results and findings from
            analyses to other staff, awardees and the field as appropriate.

     Organizational Responsibilities and Contributions:

          ☆ Attend external meetings and conferences on behalf of PCORI, at the
            discretion of the Program Director.
          ☆ Work with senior leadership to coordinate and/or prepare materials
            for Board or subcommittee meetings.

     

     

    Incumbent(s) in this position may be required to perform other duties and
    special assignments not specifically stated above.

     

    Statements outlined in this section are designated as essential job
    functions in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.

     

    *PCORI Staff Conflict of Interest Statement - No PCORI employee can receive
    a direct financial benefit from a healthcare related organization during
    the course of his/her employment with PCORI.

     

     

     PCORI is an equal opportunity employer committed to cultural diversity in
                                  the workplace.

Required Skills
      □ Strong statistical analysis skills. Knowledge of sampling, data
        modeling, matching, data mining, and data analytics required. Knowledge
        of survey research methodology desirable.
      □ Experience with major statistical analysis software packages (e.g.,
        SAS, Stata, SPSS, MPlus).
      □ Demonstrated data cleaning, data management, and data presentation
        skills.
      □ Strong research methods skills with knowledge of a wide range of
        quantitative data analytic techniques. Knowledge of qualitative data
        analysis desirable but not required.
      □ Strong project management skills, including demonstrated ability to
        think independently, to be flexible and to attend to multiple
        priorities;
      □ Ability to create a data analysis plan and coordinate execution of the
        plan with programmers and statisticians.
      □ Ability to create and implement a data quality control plan.
      □ Excellent written communication and oral presentation skills;
      □ Ability to synthesize and translate complicated material into clear and
        simple language;  
      □ Ability to read, analyze, and interpret professional journals and
        periodicals and technical reports;
      □ Personally motivated to support PCORI’s mission and goals; work
        independently and in teams to think imaginatively about opportunities
        to inform programs;
      □ Excellent interpersonal and teamwork skills; collegial, energetic, able
        to develop productive relationships with colleagues, awardees,
        consultants, external funders, and others who contribute to program
        development and management;
      □ Sound judgment and maturity,  exemplified by consistent professionalism
        in dealing with individuals at all levels, both internally and
        externally;
      □ Ability to make decisions and justify recommendations;
      □ Strong research and analysis skills;
      □ Ability to work in a highly collaborative team environment;
      □ Ability to link organizational goals to individual department mission
        and activities;
      □ Ability to envision innovative solutions;
      □ Proficient in the use of technology.
Required Experience
      □ Doctoral degree preferred. Minimum requirements are a Master’s degree
        plus a minimum of 4 years related work experience in health research or
        a related field such as Biostatistics, Survey Methodology, Clinical
        Epidemiology, Health Services Research, Economics, Data Analytics,
        Public Health, or Psychology.  Must have demonstrated experience
        analyzing small and large datasets. 

      □ Experience in health or health care related field, and experience or
        knowledge working in a funding agency/organization is desirable.

Job Location
    Washington, District of Columbia, United States
Position Type
    Full-Time/Regular

Apply

[New Resume/CV]

[Existing Resume/CV]

Connect

Who do you know at
Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute ( PCORI )

Share

Return To Job Listings 

    PCORI Jobs
  • Search Current Openings
  • Update Your Profile/Resume
  • Recruiting Agency Login
  • Benefits
  • Memo on Conflict of Interest

 
[footer-log]

Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute

1828 L Street, NW, Suite 900

Washington, DC 20036

Phone: (202) 827-7700 | Fax: (202) 355-9558

info@pcori.org

© 2017 Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy | Terms of Use
