Refresh (0 sec) /careers/jobs/a0I1200000JXWcQEAX/?_fb_noscript=1
Verwijderen
We gebruiken cookies om inhoud en advertenties relevanter te maken en je een
veiligere ervaring te bieden. Als je op de website klikt of op de website
navigeert, ga je ermee akkoord dat we op en buiten Facebook informatie
verzamelen via cookies. Meer informatie, zoals over hoe je je instellingen kunt
aanpassen, vind je hier: cookiebeleid.

Facebook

E-mail of telefoon     Wachtwoord
[                    ] [                    ] [Aanmelden]
                       Account vergeten?
Registreren
*
 
Work at Facebook
 
Teams
 
Locations
 
University Students
 
Benefits
 
Facebook Life
 
Our Community

Software Engineering

[                    ]
Menlo Park
Applied Research Scientist, Computer Vision

(Menlo Park, CA)
Facebook's mission is to give people the power to share, and make the world
more open and connected. Through our growing family of apps and services, we're
building a different kind of company that helps billions of people around the
world connect and share what matters most to them. Whether we're creating new
products or helping a small business expand its reach, people at Facebook are
builders at heart. Our global teams are constantly iterating, solving problems,
and working together to make the world more open and accessible. Connecting the
world takes every one of us?and we're just getting started.
We are seeking world-class computer vision experts to join our teams in
developing next generation products and platforms doing research and
engineering at scale. We're applying cutting-edge computer vision algorithms to
a wide range of media understanding challenges at Facebook.

Responsibilities

  * Develop novel and accurate computer vision algorithms and systems,
    leveraging deep learning and machine learning on big data resources.
  * Analyze and improve efficiency, scalability, and stability of various
    deployed systems.
  * Collaborate with team members from the level of prototyping to the level of
    production.

Minimum Qualifications

  * 5+ years of experience in building, leading and specializing in large-scale
    commercial computer vision projects from the level of researching a
    prototype to the level of production. 
  * C/C++ rapid programming in an expert level on linux os.
  * Experienced with training deep neural networks, prototyping in scripting
    languages like MATLAB, python, math performance libs (e.g. IPP, MKL), CPU
    optimization methods (e.g. assembly SIMD instructions)
  * Experience with developing on mobile/embedded platforms, e.g. Android NDK,
    armv7 NEON, is a plus.
  * PhD/MS with relevant experience in Computer Science with published projects
    in the fields of machine learning, deep learning and/or computer vision.

Apply
Facebook is proud to be an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action employer.
We do not discriminate based upon race, religion, color, national origin, sex
(including pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions), sexual
orientation, gender, gender identity, gender expression, transgender status,
sexual stereotypes, age, status as a protected veteran, status as an individual
with a disability, or other applicable legally protected characteristics.
If you need assistance or an accommodation due to a disability, you may contact
us at accommodations-ext@fb.com or you may call us at 1+650-308-7837.
Apply

Please limit to 3 applications.

Other positions in Software Engineering

  * Data Scientist (WhatsApp)
    (Menlo Park - Mountain View)
  * Manager, Network Systems
    (Menlo Park)
  * Performance and Capacity Engineer
    (Menlo Park - Seattle)
  * Software Engineer, Ads Ranking
    (Seattle)
  * Software Engineer, Infrastructure
    (Menlo Park)
  * Software Engineer, Mobile, Android UI
    (Menlo Park)
  * Software Engineer, Product (Full Stack)
    (Seattle)
  * Software Engineer, Products (Full Stack)
    (London)
  * Software Engineer, Search
    (Menlo Park - Seattle)
  * Software Engineer, UI
    (Tel Aviv)

Back to all jobs
Facebook ? 2017Nederlands
Over ons
BedrijfsgegevensOnze Facebook-paginaRedactieVacatures
Instructies
HelpcentrumAlgemene informatie over privacyEen pagina makenMaak een advertentie
Ons beleid
gegevensbeleidVoorwaarden en beleidCookies
Meer informatiebronnen
Veiligheidscentrum voor familiesFacebook for BusinessFacebook voor
ontwikkelaars
