[graphiqlog]

Data Scientist (Growth and Analytics)

Santa Barbara
Engineering
Full-time
Apply for this job

We are building the deepest and broadest knowledge graph on the planet. We have
billions of entities, hundreds of billions of facts, an amazing presentation
layer, and a growing distribution network of top tier publishers. Everyone
needs knowledge, and we?re here to satisfy that need.

As a Data Scientist on the Growth and Analytics team, you will be responsible
for designing and building business intelligence solutions that have direct and
measurable impact to Graphiq. You will provide analytic consulting and primary
market research expertise to the Product Management team. You will develop
statistical tests and analysis to delve into site performance, user engagement,
traffic growth.

What You'll Do

      + Conduct statistical analyses to solve business problems related to site
        traffic, monetization, user interaction, and more
      + Collaborate with engineering team to design and implement statistical
        tests
      + Work with product management team to identify market trends and
        correlations among datasets
      + Produce summary reports of analyses that can be used internally or
        published as formal market research reports

What We're Looking For

      + High GPA in quantitative subject (such as economics, statistics,
        engineering, computer science), with significant coursework in
        statistics
      + Experience in performing statistical tests and publishing results
      + Experience in MySQL, Excel, XML/HTML, Open Web API, JavaScript, R, SAS
      + Experience in web analytics software such as Google Analytics,
        Omniture, etc. a plus
      + Strong technical writing skills, ability to deliver summary reports of
        analyses
      + Data-driven mindset, strong problem solving skills, bias to action, and
        hustle
      + Strong interest in technology, especially in big data, and startups
      + A competitive, ethical, and fair personality with a passion to win

Start Date: As soon as possible

Experience level: our openings span from new grad to experienced professionals
with 5+ years experience. Title and compensation package will be commensurate
with experience.

Graphiq is an equal opportunity employer, and we value diversity at our
company.

Apply for this job

Graphiq Home Page

Jobs powered by [lever-logo]
