Vista Consulting Group

Data Scientist - Vista Intelligence Group

US-IL-Chicago

  • Apply
  • 
  • View All Jobs

Share This Job

Job Description

Data Scientist 

Chicago, IL

Vista Intelligence Group (“VIG”) drives Vista’s big data and strategic
intelligence. Together with our portfolio companies, we transform software to
ensure continued market leadership in an intelligence driven economy and
capitalize on the emergence of the Internet of Things. 
 
VIG identifies, develops and deploys software to deliver real-time,
differentiated and actionable intelligence, driving industry transformation and
associated value creation. Using data assets and data derived intelligence, the
VIG team partners with industry and portfolio companies to create disruptive
and compelling new offerings. 
 
Technology: 
 
Vista Intelligence Group uses industry leading technologies for data
aggregation and analysis to derive insights and enable our portfolio companies
to maximize their data intelligence opportunities. Our team of engineers, data
scientists and domain experts employ advanced technologies to run computational
analytics, build representational models and enable software applications with
predictive and prescriptive analytics – while employing advanced technologies
including machine learning, deep learning and AI systems. 
 
Job Description 
 
Vista Intelligence Group (VIG) is looking for a data scientist with experience
cleaning and distilling insights from large disparate data sets. Join a team of
system architects, software engineers, data scientists, and product managers as
we build a cutting edge data platform. In this role you will execute projects
to clean and understand data from Vista’s portfolio companies. You will use
standard munging and analysis techniques along with advanced technologies like
machine learning, NLP, and deep learning to solve complex data cleaning and
insight generation problems. Work with software engineers to automate and
deploy tools, analysis, and models in products.  The Vista Intelligence
Platform is built on cutting edge data technologies like Hadoop, Spark, Python,
and Scala. We are on a mission to disrupt how software companies monetize their
data through intelligence. VIG is looking for creative, entrepreneurial
individuals, who have a passion for delivering high impact products.  

Skills & Requirements

Responsibilities

• Help create a platform for Vista’s big data and strategic intelligence
• Build and use the world’s best tools for cleaning, exploring and distributing
data as insight
• Solve complex commercial problems with unique data
• Be part of cross-functional team building new products and services – while
interacting with trusted data science vendors
• You should be effective communicator. Our team is spread across multiple
locations and communication is a critical element of execution
 
Desired Skills and Experience
 
• 4+ years of experience in an information, software or financial services
environment
• Hands-on experience with the full life cycle of insight generation and
delivery: data collection/cleansing , idea generation, analysis, back-testing,
and deployment
• Strong analytical skills with sound understanding of mathematics,
probability, and statistics and exposure to financial mathematics and
econometrics concepts
• Experience with server-side web service frameworks for Java or Scala
• Proficiency in Python, R, Matlab, or other data analysis packages
• Desire to learn Scala to develop business logic and data management in a
Spark environment
• ORM tools
• Experience with RDMSs like SQL and Oracle
• Understanding of NoSQL database technologies
• Code management, versioning, and deployment using tools like Bitbucket,
Jenkins, Slack, and Jira
• Familiarity with practical applications of advanced analytical concepts
(Machine Learning, NLP, Deep Learning, etc.)
• Familiarity with LEAN/Agile concepts
• Preferred Educational Qualifications: BS or MS in Computer Science, Computer
Engineering or equivalent is preferred

 

  • Apply
  • 
  • View All Jobs

Want to work for one of our companies?

Are you confident, energetic, and passionate about business and technology?

Vista Equity Partners employs a network of skilled and dedicated investment
professionals, consultants, and business leaders. We are committed to long-term
value creation, and we help software and technology companies to reach their
full potential by combining investment with operation improvements, best
practices, and long-term strategy.

Send us a resume if you think you’re a good match for our team and our
portfolio of companies. If there is a match found between your employment
background and our current needs, we will contact you to schedule an interview.
Otherwise, we will keep your resume and profile in our database for future
opportunities.
