Skip to Main Content
University of Pittsburgh
PittSource

  * Home
  * Search Jobs
  * Create Account
  * Log In
  * Help

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Search Opportunities:

Executive

Faculty

Research Associate

Staff - Regular

Staff - Temporary

Student - All Opportunities

Student - FWS* Required

Student - FWS* Not Required

Union

 ^*FWS - Federal Work Study

 How to Apply & FAQ's

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 2013 AARP Best Employers Vibrant Pittsburgh

 Connect with us...

   Facebook  Twitter

Data Scientist

If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the
Bookmark link.  If you would like to print a copy of this position for your
records, click on the Print Preview link.

If you need assistance completing your application or applying for a job, call
our applicant help line at (412) 624-7000 Option #3

Bookmark this Posting | Print Preview | Apply for this Job

Position Information

Position Information

 Date Posted   12/21/2016
Working Title  Data Scientist
     Job       Systems/Programmer IV
Classification
  Department   34202-GSPH-Epidemiology
     Name
   Job Type    Staff
   Position    0134552
    Number
 Hiring Range  $46,644.00 - $76,440.00
               The Department of Epidemiology at the University of Pittsburgh
               Graduate School of Public Health is seeking a qualified Data
               Scientist.

               The Data Scientist will work to improve existing data management
               systems, provide reporting support, and conduct analyses. Duties
               include developing and implementing programs to process and
               manipulate large datasets; writing queries for extracting data;
               preparing reports with both tabular and graphical presentations;
               and developing statistical and mathematical models. The
   Position    candidate will be responsible for analysis, design, testing,
 Description   documentation, and evidence of efficacy. Candidate must have
               experience working within a team environment, yet independently,
               be able to work on multiple projects simultaneously, and work
               well under pressure to meet deadlines. The incumbent must be
               proficient in report generation, query writing, databases, and
               data visualization. In addition, the candidate must have
               experience designing, conducting, and interpreting statistical
               analyses using common statistical software tools (e.g., SAS, R, 
               SPSS, Python) and techniques (e.g., regression modeling,
               survival analysis, machine learning, data mining, clustering).

  Education    Master's
   Required
   Minimum
   Related     5-6 years experience
  Experience
Level Required
               Master?s degree in Biostatistics, Statistics, Data Science,
               Mathematics, Information Science, Data Sciences, or related
  Additional   field with at least 5 years of experience in data analysis,
Education and/ database management, or information technology; or a Doctoral
or Experience  degree in Biostatistics, Statistics, Epidemiology, Data Science,
 Essential to  Mathematics, Information Science, Data Sciences, or related
 the Position  field; or some combination of related experience and graduate
               education required.

   Required
  Licenses/
Certifications
               The following PA Act 153 clearances and background checks may be
    Child      required prior to commencement of employment and as a condition
  Protection   of continued employment: PA State Police Criminal Record Check, 
  Clearances   FBI Criminal Record Check, PA Child Abuse History Clearance.

  Assignment   Regular, Full-Time
   Category
Percent Effort 100
Scheduled Work 8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
    Hours
If Varied Work
  Schedule,
Please Specify
If Part Time,
    Actual
   Standard
 Weekly Hours
    Campus     Pittsburgh
               The University offers an excellent comprehensive benefits
               package for all full-time and part-time regular employees
               including:
               ? Education benefits and a retirement plan with employer match
               ? Group medical insurance, life insurance, and optional vision
  University   and dental insurance
   Benefits    ? Free transit service within Allegheny County for employees of
               the Oakland campus (Port Authority Transit)
               ? Time off benefits including vacation, sick and personal time

               For more information regarding the University?s benefits
               package, please visit www.hr.pitt.edu/benefits

Supplemental Questions

Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*).

 1. * Do you have a master's degree or higher or will have completed one by the
    end of this current term?
      + Yes
      + No
 2. * How did you hear of this position at the University of Pittsburgh?
      + Career Development Center (CDC)
      + Chronicle of Higher Education
      + Commonwealth Workforce Development System (Formerly PA CareerLink)
      + Craigslist.org
      + Currently a University Employee
      + Dice.com
      + Monster.com
      + Pitt Career Services
      + Pittsburgh Post Gazette
      + Pittsburgh Technology Council
      + PittSource Search
      + Referral (Friend, University Employee, etc.), please specify below
      + StudentAffairs.com
      + Higheredjobs.com
      + Indeed.com
      + Internet Search
      + Other: (Please specify below)
 3. * Please specify from above (if applicable):

    (Open Ended Question)

Applicant Documents

Required Documents

 1. Resume
 2. Cover Letter

Optional Documents

  * Office of Human Resources

    100 Craig Hall
    Pittsburgh, PA 15260
    412-624-7000

     
    Submit an Online Question
  * HR Quick Links

    Benefits
    Careers
    Compensation & Classification
    Diversity
    Temporary Employment
    Why Work at Pitt
    Work/Life
  * Resources

    Campus Safety
    E-Verify
    Job Family Descriptions
    Map and Directions
    Required Workplace Postings
    Site Security

                         University of Pittsburgh Logo

    The University of Pittsburgh is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity
Employer and values equality of opportunity, human dignity and diversity. EEO/
                             AA/M/F/Vets/Disabled
                                                                               
