[logo]

  • Home
  • Employment Listings
  • About Us
  • FAQs

    Employment Listings
  • Search Current Openings
  • Update Your Profile
  • Create a Job Agent
  • Update Job Agent
  • Recruiting Agency Login

 

Your user session will timeout in 5 minutes. Please click OK to continue with
your application.

2017 NASA Science Animation Fellowship

Tracking Code
    548-200
Job Description
   
    USRA is an independent, nonprofit research corporation where the combined
    efforts of in-house talent and university-based expertise merge to advance
    space science and technology. USRA works across disciplines including
    biomedicine, planetary science, astrophysics, and engineering and
    integrates those competencies into applications ranging from fundamental
    research to facility management and operations. USRA engages the creativity
    and authoritative expertise of the research community to develop and
    deliver sophisticated, forward-looking solutions to Federal agencies and
    other customers - on schedule and within budget

     

     

    The NASA Animation Fellowship is a yearlong program for animators wishing
    to explore the intersection of animation, motion graphics and science
    illustration.  You will work with an outstanding team of animators, data
    visualizers, video producers, and science writers as you produce animations
    for some of NASA’s most exciting science missions such as mind bending
    results from the Hubble Space Telescope, the inner workings of the
    hurricane heat engine, rivers of plasma racing beneath the surface of the
    Sun, an audacious new concept to sample the atmosphere of Venus, and extra
    solar planets made of clouds rubies and sapphires.

     

     

    Duties and Responsibilities

      □ Fellows are expected to make substantive contributions by creating
        animation and motion graphics content for use by a wide range of
        audiences: newsmedia, museums, science centers, educators, and NASA’s
        popular social media streams
      □ You will assist senior animators by creating motion graphics, models,
        setting up scenes/lighting, rendering, compositing, and archiving
      □ You will have a chance to develop your own projects from start to
        finish: attending meetings with scientists, storyboarding, modeling,
        creating final renders, and working advising on distribution strategies
Required Skills
      □ Bachelors degree in animation, or fine arts related field
      □ Experience in techniques for the production of motion graphics and 3D
        computer animation including storyboarding, modeling, 3D lighting
        techniques, particle systems, texture mapping, compositing, and
        rendering
      □ Strong technical skills and proficiency with design packages and
        illustration
      □ Strong sense of composition, motion, light and color
      □ Skill in translating and visualizing complex concepts and ideas
      □ Experience with science or technology themes desired

     

    Application Materials: 

     1. You must include links to a demo reel or samples of work. We are
        especially interested in any work you have related to science and
        technology subjects. You can see samples from our team: http://
        cilab.gsfc.nasa.gov
     2. Personal statement outlining your educational and professional
        development objectives. Describe your educational and professional
        experiences motivating your decision to pursue science animation.
     3. Resume with relevant work experience and educational highlights.
     4. Your resume, personal statement, and links to your reel must be
        combined into a single PDF.

     

    Timeline:

      □ Application deadline is Feb 19, 2017
      □ Starting date is June 2017.

     

     

    USRA is an Equal Opportunity Employer Minorities/Females/Protected Veterans
    /Disabled/Sexual Orientation/Gender Identity

     

     

     

Job Location
    Greenbelt, Maryland, United States
Position Type
    Full-Time/Regular

Apply

[Create New Account]

[Login to Account]

Connect

Who do you know at
USRA

Share

Return To Job Listings 

© 2017 Universities Space Research Association | Site Map
USRA is an Equal Opportunity Employer
Minorities/Females/Protected Veterans/Disabled/Sexual Orientation/Gender
Identity
Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)
