Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist

Data Scientist

Job ID 
    4738

# of Openings 
    1

Job Location 
    US-VA-Fairfax

Posted Date 
    11/17/2016

Category 
    Information Technology

Relocation Assistance 
    Yes

More information about this job:

Job Description:

Dewberry is a leading, market-facing professional services firm with more than
50 locations and 2,000 professionals nationwide. What sets us apart from our
competitors are our people. At Dewberry, we seek out exceptional talent and
strive to deliver the highest quality of services to our clients. Whether
you’re an experienced professional or a new graduate, you’ll have the chance to
collaborate with the best and brightest and work on innovative and complex
projects at the forefront of the industry. Our commitment to excellence stems
from our personal integrity and from other defining attributes, which we call
“Dewberry at Work,” that have inspired our employees to be successful for more
than a half-century.

 

Dewberry is seeking Data Analyst/ Data Scientist Professional preferably with
experience in geospatial analytics. This position will support a wide array of
projects at national, regional, and local scales. Candidates will have strong
competencies and demonstrated experience using statistical, numerical and
computer application techniques to conduct analyses. Candidates will have
strong skills with proficiency in a range of important tools such as pandas, 
Numpy, matplotlib, SciPy, and SQL. Mines and analyzes complex and unstructured
data sets using advanced statistical methods for use in data driven decision
making.

Responsibilities:

Job Duties:

Performs research, analysis, and modeling on organizational data. Develops and
applies algorithms or models to key business metrics with the goal of improving
operations or answering business questions. Provides findings and analysis for
use in decision making.

This position will mostly focus on advanced data analysis and analytics efforts
in support of several Federal and State contracts. This is an excellent career
opportunity for an individual to join a team of professionals while working in
a multidisciplinary consulting and engineering firm.  The position offers great
potential for professional growth and the opportunity to apply the latest
technology to efforts in climate risk adaptation, water resources analyses, and
resilient design.

Essential Duties and Responsibilities:

  • Support large-scale data collection, processing, cleaning, and verifying
    the data used for analytics
  • Data mining using statistical methods
  • Preparing dashboards for visualizing analytics results
  • Conducting data analyses and packaging results tailored for both technical
    and non-technical audience.
  • Coordinating with the internal and external stakeholders to collect
    requirements, inform analyses, and develop presentations of results.

Required Skills & Required Experience:

Must have experience that demonstrates a strong background in the application
of GIS and skills to execute efficient solutions. The candidate should have
strong organizational skills, as well as the ability to multi-task and work
independently and as a team player.

  • Masters degree or Bachelor’s with 5+ years’ experience with Data Science,
    Computer science, operation research or any quantitatively related fields.
  • Experience with numerical and statistical packages like pandas, Numpy,
    SciPy, matplotlib, and R.
  • Experience with data visualization tools like Tableau, Microsoft Power BI,
    D3.js, and Visual.ly
  • Experience in writing complex database queries using SQL
  • Preferred experience in distributed computing frameworks likes MapReduce,
    Spark, Hive, Impala
  • Preferred knowledge of machine learning packages likes Scikit-Learn,
    TensorFlow
  • Preferred experience or knowledge of GIS tools like ArcGIS 10x, Leaflet,
    PostGIS, Fiona
  • Innovation, enthusiasm, and creativity - ability to develop new ideas and
    to chart a path
  • Ability to effectively manage multiple assignments concurrently
  • Communicate complex information using visual tools and reporting to the
    technical and non-technical audience.

*At this time, Dewberry will not sponsor a new applicant for work
authorization.

*Dewberry is an Equal Opportunity/ Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, protected veteran status,
gender identity or sexual orientation.

*Prior to a final offer of employment, the selected candidate will be required
to submit to a background screening which may include, but is not limited to,
employment verification, educational and other credential verification, driving
record check, criminal background check, and an investigative consumer report. 
These screenings will be conducted by Dewberry’s background vendor of choice
and will be conducted in compliance with all applicable federal, state, and
local law.

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs

Software Powered by iCIMS

