[F_CL5357]

                                                                      ?     [p]
[pixel]       Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Current [pixel]
                page                                  page                                  page                                 page
                Home                                 Search                                Search                                 Job                                                                                                          
                                                    openings                               results                              details
 
   ● Job details                               
                                         Tweet
   [pixel]                                      [pixel]
   [pixel]

  [pixel]
                                  Job 1 of 1
  [pixel]

               Apply to job   Send to friend   Save to cart   

   [pixel]

   Auto req ID    12145BR

   Title          Gain Theory – Data Scientist/Statistical Modeler

   Company        GroupM

   Location       GroupM - New York, NY

   Job Category   Data & Analytics

   Job            Gain Theory – Data Scientist/Statistical Modeler
   Description
                  Gain Theory has an opening in New York City, USA for a
                  Data Scientist or Statistical Modeler. In this role you
                  will work within a team dedicated to delivering cutting
                  edge capabilities to our clients. In particular, we are
                  looking for someone to enhance our existing attribution
                  models, and sales prediction models. A variety of
                  technologies are in-play to include Amazon Web Services,
                  Hadoop, Vertica, Python, and R. If you are looking for an
                  opportunity to contribute to a growing company and work
                  within a group of bright people driven to help our
                  clients, read on.
                  Gain Theory is a global marketing foresight consultancy
                  that brings together data, analytics, technology
                  solutions and consumer-insight capabilities to help
                  marketing and insight professionals make smarter, faster,
                  predictive business decisions.

                  Further, Gain Theory is a part of GroupM and WPP. WPP is
                  the world leader in communication services focusing on
                  advertising, media investment management, consumer
                  insight, public relations and branding among others.
                  GroupM is WPP’s consolidated media investment management
                  operation. As such, it is the global number one media
                  investment management group (RECMA 2010) with worldwide
                  billing of $90.8Bn (RECMA July 2012) representing 32.7%
                  global market share. Our clients are leaders in their
                  respective industries and represent more than 330 of the
                  Fortune 500, more than half of the NASDAQ 100 and more
                  than 30 of the Fortune e-50.
                  Role Responsibilities:
                  • Design and build enhancements to existing models
                  currently in-use by Gain Theory.
                  • Contribute to the development of new models as needs
                  arise.
                  • Collaborate across Gain Theory, to include the
                  off-shore teams.
                  • Manage schedules and overall project status to ensure
                  requirements and project deliverable dates are clearly
                  communicated, understood and executed upon.
                  • Effectively and efficiently plan tasks and
                  deliverables.
                  • Actively manage project risks to recognize/predict
                  potential problems and proactively identify solutions to
                  address.
                  • Communicate and document project status to team members
                  on a regular basis.
                  • Ability to manage several projects simultaneously.
                  Qualifications:
                  • MS in Computer Science or related technical field
                  required. PhD preferred.
                  • 5+ years related work experience in Analytics. Specific
                  experience in attribution modeling, media mix modeling,
                  or predictive sales modeling is a plus.
                  • General expertise in standard modeling techniques:
                  regression, decision trees, clustering, and Bayesian
                  techniques
                  • Experience with the full development life cycle of an
                  analytical application stack – from raw data ingestion
                  through to analytical outputs.
                  • Deep knowledge of data mining tools (Python, R, and
                  Vertica) specifically within the area of developing
                  productized analytical workflows.
                  • Experience with big-data concepts and tools; cloud
                  computing and open-source tools is preferred (e.g. AWS,
                  Hadoop, PigLatin, Vertica, Hive, etc.)
                  • Knowledge of SQL and experience working with at least
                  one of the major databases platforms (SQLServer, Oracle,
                  DB2, MySQL, Sybase, or Postgres).
                  • Strong analytical skills; ability to analyze raw data,
                  draw conclusions, and develop actionable recommendations
                  • Organized, detail-oriented, QA-focused
                  • Process-driven project management a plus
                  • Prior knowledge of the advertising ecosystem,
                  understanding of marketing/media metrics, and analytical
                  products offered as a service is preferred but not
                  required.

                  WE ARE AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
                  It is the policy of GroupM and its affiliates to provide
                  equal employment opportunities to all employees and
                  applicants for employment without regard to race, color,
                  religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin,
                  age, disability, marital status, or status as a covered
                  veteran in accordance with applicable federal, state and
                  local laws.
                  

               Apply to job   Send to friend   Save to cart   

 
