IAC

Data Science Manager

  * Oakland, CA
  * Full-time

Company Description

About Us
IAC Publishing brings together a collection of the web?s most trusted brands to
create one of the largest digital publishers in the world, reaching more than
100 million US users a month. With distinct and influential voices, our media
brands touch millions of discerning adults and actively engaged millennials,
each one offering advertisers a variety of unique and creative ways to make a
lasting impression.

Job Description

We are looking for a manager for IAC Publishing Lab?s data science team. The
data science team leverages techniques from natural language processing and
data science to help drive breakthroughs in performance marketing and support
the creation of engaging search and content experiences. As a leader in our
technology organization, you will collaborate across the organization within a
culture that values pragmatic solutions.

What you will do

  * Manage a team of PhD level data scientists, providing feedback and
    mentorship to the team
  * Collaborate with the performance marketing, business intelligence, and data
    teams to drive solutions
  * Be an authority within the organization on data science, NLP and machine
    learning
  * Participate in defining strategic direction for the data science team
  * Work with python, sklearn and big data technologies such as hadoop and
    spark
  * Help ensure that we follow best practice in both data science and
    engineering
  * Plan and drive data products to their completion, communicating results to
    leadership

Qualifications

What you bring to us
You are an experienced, pragmatic data science practitioner and leader. You
enjoy collaborating to find the best solution, regardless of ownership. You
provide day-to-day leadership for the data science team, inspiring the team
with your creativity, positive attitude and focus on quality. You will have an
important role building our data-driven culture, and provide key direction on
how we build data products.

  * Have strong foundational understanding of topics in data science and
    natural language processing
  * Proven leadership experience by either driving projects or teams
  * Ability to mentor and provide feedback in a positive and thoughtful manner
  * Strong communication and collaboration skills
  * Strong problem solver
  * Ideal: Have a PhD or a master?s plus experience in a quantitative subject

Additional Information

Why Work for Us
We have some of the greatest benefits such as: unlimited vacation for salaried
employees, medical/dental/vision options, pet insurance, 401(k) matching,
commuter subsidy, tuition reimbursement, charity gift matching, huge discounts
to wireless/gym/travel/much more. Our office has free snacks, catered lunch
more often than not, monthly in-house massages, and themed monthly snack. More
importantly ? we know how hard you work so we celebrate that hard work often.

I'm interested
I'm interestedRefer a friend
Tony Le

Posted by

Tony Le

share this job

  *  
  *  
  *  
  *  

Powered by 

[105072665]
