Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Statistician

Statistician

Requisition ID 
    2016-18590

# of Openings 
    1

Job Location 
    USA-IA-West Des Moines

Job Function 
    Science and Engineering

Security Clearance Level 
    None

More information about this job

Job Description

Gathers, analyzes, and interprets a wide variety of data.

 

 

 

1. Plans data collection, and analyzes and interprets statistical data from
surveys, experiments, studies, and other sources.

 

2. Plans methods to collect information and develops questionnaire techniques
according to survey design.

 

3. Conducts surveys, evaluates reliability of source information, adjusts and
weighs raw data, analyzes and interprets statistics, and organizes results.

 

4. Prepares conclusions and predictions based on data summaries.

 

5. Prepares reports, charts, tables, and other visual aids.

 

6. Participates in special projects as required.

Education

Bachelors Degree in a scientific discipline.

Qualifications

2-5 years of related statistical analysis experience.

 
 

As a trusted systems integrator for more than 50 years, General Dynamics
Information Technology provides information technology (IT), systems
engineering, professional services and simulation and training to customers in
the defense, federal civilian government, health, homeland security,
intelligence, state and local government and commercial sectors.With
approximately 32,000 professionals worldwide, the company delivers IT
enterprise solutions, manages large-scale, mission-critical IT programs and
provides mission support services.GDIT is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative
Action Employer - Minorities/Females/Protected Veterans/Individuals with
Disabilities.

Options

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed!
#Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQsPowered by the iCIMS Talent Platform (Opens new window)

Software Powered by iCIMS

