Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Machine Learning Scientist

Machine Learning Scientist

Job ID 
    419819

Location 
    US-MA-Cambridge

Posted Date 
    1/5/2017

Company 
    Amazon Corporate LLC

Recruiting Team 
    ..

Job Description

Amazon is looking for a passionate, talented, and inventive Scientist with a
strong machine learning background to help build industry-leading Speech and
Language technology. Our mission is to push the envelope in Automatic Speech
Recognition (ASR), Natural Language Understanding (NLU), and Audio Signal
Processing, in order to provide the best-possible experience for our customers.
As a Speech and Language Scientist, you will work with talented peers to
develop novel algorithms and modeling techniques to advance the state of the
art in spoken language understanding. Your work will directly impact our
customers in the form of products and services that make use of speech and
language technology. You will leverage Amazon’s heterogeneous data sources and
large-scale computing resources to accelerate advances in spoken language
understanding.

We are hiring in all areas of spoken language understanding: ASR, NLU,
text-to-speech (TTS), and Dialog Management.

Basic Qualifications

Basic Qualifications

  • Graduate degree (MS or PhD) in Electrical Engineering, Computer Sciences,
    or Mathematics with specialization in speech recognition, natural language
    processing, or machine learning.
  • Familiar with programming languages such as C/C++, Java, Perl or Python.

Preferred Qualifications

Preferred Qualifications:

  • Experience in building speech recognition and natural language processing
    systems (e.g. commercial speech products or government speech projects)
  • Solid Machine Learning background and familiar with standard speech and
    machine learning techniques.
  • Scientific thinking and the ability to invent, a track record of thought
    leadership and contributions that have advanced the field
  • Solid software development experience
  • Good written and spoken communication skills.


Amazon is an Equal Opportunity-Affirmative Action Employer - Female/Minority/
Disability/Veteran



speech-jobs

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
