Data Scientist
Pittsburgh, PA
Search Other Jobs Apply Now
Highmark Health
search again

Job Attributes

Job Id

J100390

Category

Not Defined

Location

444 Liberty Avenue
Pittsburgh, PA
US

Company

Gateway Health Plan

Type

Full time

Apply Now


Share this on

Share this on:

  • Home
  • Search Jobs
  • Applicant Login

New Search Previous Search

Data Scientist
Pittsburgh, PA

Job Description

Company :

Gateway Health Plan

Job Description : 

Driven by insatiable curiosity and a propensity to find innovative and creative
ways to solve complex problems, the Data Scientist will leverage statistical,
programmatic, mining, and visualization techniques to create knowledge and
insight that meets financial, operational, and clinical needs of the business.
 Duties include ad hoc exploration, transformation, and integration of
structured and unstructured data in Hadoop and RDBMS data environments.  They
will help develop and drive programs that produce text, process, geospatial,
predictive, and prescriptive analytics using techniques such as NLP, process
mining, and machine learning.  This position will reside in an Informatics
“Center of Excellence” and work closely with a reporting and analytics team
that combines computational science, data, technology, and business knowledge
to deliver high-value, customer-driven information solutions.  They must be
excellent communicators who are able to clearly present findings and work with
stakeholders at all levels.

Essential Job Functions:

  • Content matter expert in healthcare datasets and business topics to
    advocate, evangelize and build data-driven products that help our business
    improve the delivery and efficiency of healthcare.
  • Work on cross-functional teams to identify and prioritize needs,
    deficiencies, data, techniques, and insights across a variety of core
    business areas.
  • Provide expertise on mathematical, statistical, and computational concepts
    for presentation and understanding at all levels of the organization in
    order to help drive the adoption of advanced analytics and data science
    across the breadth of our organization.
  • Create and uncover new and interesting data element and structures to
    inform our core business areas.
  • Help to transfer advanced and innovative techniques into stabilized
    deliverables to drive continual business insight.
  • Transfer advanced and innovative techniques into stabilized deliverables to
    drive continual business insight.
  • Other duties as assigned or requested.

Minimum Qualifications:

  • Master's Degree - Engineering, Applied Statistics, Data Mining, Machine
    Learning, Physics or other quantitative disciplines
  • 5 - 7 years' of experience delivering data science and analytic insights to
    solve business problems

Preferred Qualifications:

  • Experience with R, SQL, Python, and/or Java
  • Experience with Hadoop
  • Experience with BI tools such as Tableau and Cognos
  • Experience in Machine Learning. 
  • Experience working with Clinical Data. 
  • Claims experience. 

Knowledge, Skills & Abilities:

  • Ability to translate business needs and requirements into analytical and
    computational requirements
  • High proficiency with statistical techniques and machine learning
  • Knowledge of healthcare and health insurance sectors. Knowledge of various
    healthcare data sources; claims, clinical EMR, labs, consumer, and
    demographic
  • Knowledge of both relational databases and Hadoop-based frameworks
  • Demonstrated ability to work on multiple projects with multiple teams
  • Demonstrated ability to deliver high quality insights in a variety of
    timeframes
  • Deep understanding of statistical and predictive modeling concepts,
    machine-learning approaches, clustering and classification techniques and
    recommendation and opitmization algorithms
  • Demonstrated ability to solve busines problems and find patterns and
    insights with structured and unstructured data

GD2016

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Highmark Health and its affiliates prohibit discrimination against qualified
individuals based on their status as protected veterans or individuals with
disabilities, and prohibit discrimination against all individuals based on
their race, color, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation or any
other category protected by applicable federal, state or local law. Highmark
Health and its affiliates take affirmative action to employ and advance in
employment individuals without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, protected veteran status or disability.

EEO is The Law

Equal Opportunity Employer Minorities/Women/Protected Veterans/Disabled/Sexual
Orientation/Gender Identity (http://www1.eeoc.gov/employers/upload/
eeoc_self_print_poster.pdf)

We endeavor to make this site accessible to any and all users. If you would
like to contact us regarding the accessibility of our website or need
assistance completing the application process, please contact number below.

For accommodation requests, please call HR Services at 844-242-HR4U or visit HR
Services Online at HRServices@highmarkhealth.org

Apply Now

Site Map

Home Search Jobs

Follow us

 

Career Opportunities

Not Defined (670 jobs)
Visit www.highmarkhealth.org
© Highmark Health 2017. All Rights Reserved

ADVERTO

