JavaScript is turned off in your web browser. Turn it on to take full advantage
of this site, then refresh the page.

Loading...
 
Powered by SuccessFactors
Sign In

Career Opportunities: Data Scientist (University Grad) (103086)

Requisition ID 103086 - Posted 12/21/2016 - Regular - CTO - Analytics - Redwood
City - California - United States - Americas
?  Job Description Print Preview
Apply Save Job Email Job to Friend Return to List

 

 

We are EA

 

Electronic Arts is more than you?ve ever realized. We?re more than a company,
or a headline, or even a clever catchphrase ? we?re a vibrant community of over
8,000 artists, storytellers, technologists and innovators working toward a
shared vision: to inspire and unite through play.

 

While headquartered in Redwood City, EA's platform engineering, game
development, and publishing operations take place in a network of locations,
stretching from Shanghai to Stockholm, Melbourne to Vancouver. No matter which
of our studio locations you join, you?ll feel the energy and support of EA?s
global brand, while immersing yourself in a culture that inspires you to
thrive, take risks and dream big. Our unique studios create amazingly creative
and fun games - fast paced puzzles, adrenaline filled warfare, galaxy spanning
adventures, high speed racing, and sports so realistic you can practically feel
the grass under your feet.

 

This is an especially great time for the video game industry, as we?re
currently going through an exciting digital transformation. The effects of this
on EA?s business have been profound. In fiscal year 2014, 45% ($1.8 billion) of
our non-GAAP net revenues came from digital offerings. The global gaming
audience has also never been bigger, with industry revenue projected to reach
$86 billion in 2016.

 

Since its founding in 1982, EA has helped shape the way over 300 million
registered players consume and enjoy interactive media. No other company can
deliver EA?s portfolio of amazing games and services, across multiple
platforms, to players around the world. It is an exciting era in games, and an
exciting time to join the team at EA!

 

The Challenge Ahead:

 

EA?s Digital Platform (EADP) organization is responsible for driving critical
technology decisions and investments for EA on a global basis, across all
divisions and studio teams. Technology and engineering leadership at EA is
critical to making the industry?s best games and services and the EADP team is
leading the way to providing cross-platform infrastructure that will keep our
consumers connected with our games anytime, anywhere with anyone.

 

What a Data Scientist, Player Reliability does at EA:

 

This unique role will be perfect for an individual who likes to find innovative
ways of building powerful data-driven systems to inform automated recovery
actions. If the idea of pattern and signal analysis, extracting meaning out of
petabytes of data and analyzing complex technical architecture across EA to
understand underlying drivers and root causes of de-stabilization sounds
exciting, then this is the path for you. Success has customers spending more
hours with our portfolio of games because they are fast and reliable; having
?EA Servers? powering a game becomes a competitive differentiator. This effort
requires expertise spanning platform technologies, infrastructure technologies,
and game engine and client technology across EA?s broad portfolio of mobile,
console and PC games as well as other consumer facing touch points.

 

Projects and Responsibilities may include:

 

?      Extract information from huge amounts of social media, email, chat and
phone data

?      Develop a better understanding of service availability issues and
leverage data to build a prediction and prevention system

?      Automate issue detection and resolution processes

?      Build and implement in-depth analyses and data visualizations

?      Design, develop, and run experiments to gauge effectiveness of metrics

?      Partner closely with customer service teams to understand how to better
communicate and resolve service availability issues

 

The next great EA Data Scientist, Player Reliability needs:

 

?      Master's in Computer Science, Statistics, Operations Research or related
field (Will consider Bachelor's degree with significant relevant experience)

?      Expertise in machine learning, data mining, natural language processing,
pattern recognition and/or anomaly detection with ~2 years relevant experience
or coursework

?      Ability to define and manage an independent project- from exploratory
data analysis to model building, implementation and evaluation  

?      Strong programming expertise in Python, Java, or C/C++

?      Familiarity with a statistical software package such as R, SAS or Stata

?      Experience with relational and distributed databases

?      A passion for gaming and a highly analytical and creative thinker

 

 

EA is an equal opportunity employer. All employment decisions are made without
regard to race, color, national origin, ancestry, sex, gender, gender identity
or expression, sexual orientation, age, genetic information, religion,
disability, medical condition, pregnancy, marital status, family status or
veteran status. We will also consider for employment qualified applicants with
criminal records in accordance with applicable law.

 

Apply Save Job Email Job to Friend Return to List
Email this job to a friend
 

    ?

 
 

    ?
    The job has been sent to

 

                     Please provide the information below
             Job title:              
        *Your email address:         [                                        ]
   *Your friend's email address:     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
              Message:               [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
         Verification code:          
*Please enter the verification code  
               here:

Send Cancel
