Skip to content
Find Pharmaceutical Sales Jobs at MSD

  • Jobs Home
  • About Us
  • Diversity
  • Life At MSD
  • Location
      □ Oportunidades de carrera en MSD América Latina para estudiantes y
        graduados
      □ Estudante/Graduado - Oportunidades na MSD América Latina
      □ Todos os cargos no Brasil
      □ Vacantes en Argentina
      □ Vacantes en Chile
      □ Vacantes en Colombia
      □ Vacantes en Costa Rica
      □ Vacantes en Ecuador
      □ Vacantes en México
      □ Vacantes en Perú
      □ Vacantes en Puerto Rico
      □ Vacantes en Venezuela

SEARCH BY KEYWORD [                    ] []
Search by Keyword [                    ] [Search Jobs]
Share this Job
Email similar jobs to meEmail similar jobs to me

Please enable JavaScript to subscribe.


  • 
      □ Join with LinkedInJoin with LinkedIn Help
      □ Join Now  Help
        Email [                    ] [Start]
      □ Please wait...
        Loading

ID Discovery Research In Vivo Scientist Job

Apply now »

  • Apply now Apply now
      □ Start apply with LinkedInStart apply with LinkedIn Help
      □ Start apply with FacebookStart apply with Facebook Help
      □ Apply Now  Help
        Email [                    ] [Start]
      □ Please wait...
        Loading

Date: Jan 6, 2017

Location: West Point, PA, US

Company: MSD

ID Discovery Research In Vivo Scientist-BIO004752

Description

Merck & Co., Inc. Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. known as Merck in the United States
and Canada, is a global health care leader with a diversified portfolio of
prescription medicines, vaccines and animal health products. Today, we are
building a new kind of healthcare company – one that is ready to help create a
healthier future for all of us.

Our ability to excel depends on the integrity, knowledge, imagination, skill,
diversity and teamwork of an individual like you. To this end, we strive to
create an environment of mutual respect, encouragement and teamwork. As part of
our global team, you’ll have the opportunity to collaborate with talented and
dedicated colleagues while developing and expanding your career.


We are seeking innovative, dedicated and highly motivated Biologists with a to
join the Infectious Diseases and Vaccines department at Merck. We are focused
on remaining at the forefront of the exciting, fast-paced field of infectious
diseases, and are always looking for innovative ideas, that will influence the
discovery, and development of anti-infective agents.

The candidate will be responsible for designing and executing diverse
scientific projects in the fields of infectious diseases antibacterial,
antivirals, and antifungals, host immune responses, microbiome, and biologics/
vaccine discovery and development. The incumbent will become an integral part
of a creative, and flexible team that is focused on the discovery, and
development of novel therapies and therapeutic approaches to treat infectious
diseases.

The candidate for this position should have a demonstrated experience in the
fields of microbiology, virology, immunology, or vaccinology, especially
concerning in vivo testing and animal model development. In addition, an ideal
candidate will have proven laboratory and leadership skills, demonstrated
independence in experimental design and execution and excellent communication
skills.

The candidate will be carrying out cutting-edge research at the laboratory
level. The candidate will be expected to understand and solve challenging
issues independently. In addition, the candidate will be required to
effectively communicate scientific data to diverse, cross-functional audience
and participate in key team meetings.

Qualifications

Education:

- BS in Immunology or Infectious Diseases with 7 years of experience OR MS in
Immunology or Infectious Diseases with 3 years of experience OR PhD in
Immunology or Infectious Diseases, with post-doctoral research experience or
equivalent industrial experience.

Required:

- In vivo skills including surgical and non-surgical techniques in small
species; dosing and sampling.

- Model development for infectious disease animal systems to characterize and
evaluate efficacy of novel drugs and vaccines candidates.

- In vitro evaluation of antimicrobial and antiviral agents including
measurements of relative potency, spectrum and "off-target" or cytotoxicity
assessments.

- Designing & implementing preclinical models (in vivo) of infection and
discovery of novel drug targets.

- Demonstrated ability to work with infectious agents, including bacteria,
fungi, viruses, or toxins.

- Strong knowledge and expertise in cell biology, microbiology, virology.
Alternatively, innate and adaptive immunology.

Preferred:

- Direct experience in the discovery and evaluation of antibacterial and/or
antiviral agents including effects on host/pathogen interactions and/or
modulation of host immune responses.

- Experience in evaluation of host-microbiome interactions.

- In vivo skills, both surgical and non-surgical, pk/pd, immunogenicity and
efficacy testing in various species.

Our employees are the key to our company’s success. We demonstrate our
commitment to our employees by offering a competitive and valuable rewards
program. Our Company’s benefits are designed to support the wide range of
goals, needs and lifestyles of our employees, and many of the people that
matter the most in their lives. If you need an accommodation for the
application process please email us at staffingaadar@merck.com.

Search Firm Representatives Please Read Carefully:

Merck & Co., Inc. is not accepting unsolicited assistance from search firms for
this employment opportunity. Please, no phone calls or emails. All resumes
submitted by search firms to any employee at Merck via email, the Internet or
in any form and/or method without a valid written search agreement in place for
this position will be deemed the sole property of Merck. No fee will be paid in
the event the candidate is hired by Merck as a result of the referral or
through other means.

For more information about personal rights under Equal Employment Opportunity,
visit:

EEOC Poster

EEOC GINA Supplement​



Merck is an equal opportunity employer, Minority/Female/Disability/Veteran –
proudly embracing diversity in all of its manifestations.


Job: Biology-Discovery

Job Title:Sr. Scientist, Biology-Discovery

Primary Location: NA-US-PA-West Point

Employee Status: Regular

Travel: Yes, 5 % of the Time

Number of Openings: 1

Hazardous Materials: Pathogens, Standard Lab chemicals

Company Trade Name:Merck


Nearest Major Market: Philadelphia
Job Segment: Chemistry, Immunology, Microbiology, Scientific, Science,
Healthcare, Engineering, Research

Apply now »

  • Apply now Apply now
      □ Start apply with LinkedInStart apply with LinkedIn Help
      □ Start apply with FacebookStart apply with Facebook Help
      □ Apply Now  Help
        Email [                    ] [Start]
      □ Please wait...
        Loading

Find similar jobs:
Sales Jobs, Project Management & Director Jobs, Pennsylvania Operations and
Production Jobs, MSD Opportunities, Information Technology Jobs

Sign in

We noticed that you are already a member of our Talent Community. Please enter
your password to continue.

Email* Not you?
Password* [                    ]
Forgot Password?

* required field

Submit Working...Cancel
Account Verification

We noticed you have accounts in our “Talent Community" and “Application"
systems. We take security seriously and need to verify your identity to
synchronize your accounts.

Account Email:

Please follow these steps to synchronize your accounts.
1. Reset your password:

The "reset password" link will open in a new browser window. Return to this
page to enter your new password.

Click here to reset your Password

2. Enter your NEW password here:
[                    ]

Submit Working...Cancel
Account Verification

Your accounts have been successfully synchronized. Use your new password when
accessing our systems.
Confirm
Already a Member

You are already a user of this site. Please sign in.

Email* Not you?
Password* [                    ]
Forgot Password?

* required field

Sign in Working...Cancel
Start Your Application

                                         New Users
Existing Users
                                               Create a new account now!
Email* [                    ] Password*
[                    ]                     • Start Your Application
                                           • Receive Email Updates
Forgot Password?                           • Join our Talent Community


Sign in Working...                       Create

* required field

Create Profile

Working...Working...
Next »
Careers Home Top Job Searches View All Jobs socialmatcher
