
KU Endowment

Development Research Analyst (Lawrence, KS)


THE KANSAS UNIVERSITY ENDOWMENT ASSOCIATION
 
Position Title:             Development Research Analyst*

Reports to:                 Director, Development Research

Position Summary:
Full-time professional position and integral member of a team of professionals
that uses ethical and creative research techniques to provide high-level
description and analysis on alumni, donors, parents, and friends, and
occasionally on corporations and foundations, using a wide variety of
biographical, organizational, and financial sources.  Additionally, the
position analyzes and synthesizes accumulated information to assess financial
capacity, philanthropic tendencies, giving propensity, and connections to the
University of Kansas. 
 
The individual in this position is expected to embrace KU Endowment?s stated
core values ? passion for KU, partnership with donors, perpetual support for
KU, and a people-centered approach ? and demonstrate support for them through
professional interactions and activities.
 
*Note: This position may be filled at the Development Research Analyst or the
Senior Development Research Analyst level based upon the successful candidate?s
qualifications and experience
 
Examples of Duties and Responsibilities of the Development Research Analyst:

  *  Primarily researches and synthesizes biographic and financial information
    on individuals to create research profiles for fundraising use. May
    occasionally conduct similar background research on foundation or corporate
    entities. Prepares short biographies quickly and efficiently.
  * Communicates and disseminates the results of research and analysis to
    front-line fundraisers and makes recommendations on the prospect?s
    potential philanthropic impact to the University and how the prospect fits
    into the fundraiser?s portfolio.
  * Works to identify new major gift prospects for KU by uncovering them within
    our current prospect base or by discovering philanthropists whose interests
    are closely related to the University?s mission.
  * Works collaboratively with development staff to understand the specific
    opportunities within the unit or constituency.
  * Collaborates with development staff to provide information important to the
    development of major gift qualification, cultivation, solicitation, and
    stewardship strategies.
  * Assists in training development staff on services and information that can
    be obtained through the research department.
  * Ability and willingness to travel to the KU Endowment Kansas City office at
    least 2 to 4 times a month, more if needed.
  * Other duties as directed. 
     

Minimum Qualifications:
 
Training and Experience:
Minimum qualifications are a Bachelor's degree, especially in a discipline
requiring the study of research techniques and information interpretation.
Preferred:  Master's degree with emphasis in liberal arts, library science, or
journalism.  Experience in higher education or at a research institution.
 
Knowledge, Abilities and Skills:
Proven library, research, and analytical techniques, emphasizing the ability to
gather, evaluate, and synthesize complex data from various sources and present
information in a clear and cohesive manner.  Ability to work independently and
proactively, yet function in a collaborative team environment, exhibiting
self-reliance, dependability, trustworthiness, good listening skills, and an
ability to form effective working partnerships with colleagues.
 
Demonstrated ability to manage multiple projects and competing priorities to
solve problems and to meet challenging and changing deadlines.
 
High degree of professionalism, ethical sensitivity, confidentiality, and
discretion.  Knowledge of ethics statements and the Body of Knowledge as
defined by the Association of Professional Researchers for Advancement (APRA).
 
Significant aptitude and experience with computers, sophisticated internet
research, and relational databases.  Experience with prospect research
resources such as (but not limited to) LexisNexis for Development
Professionals, NOZA, iWave, Foundation Directory, etc.  Experience with
development databases (e.g. Ellucian Advance, etc.).
 
Excellent communication skills and a clear, concise writing style; strong
editing, spelling, and grammar skills. Ability to organize and prioritize work.
Ability to establish and maintain partnerships with development staff.
 
Must be able to maintain effective working relationships with KU Endowment
personnel at all levels and to conduct business with a positive demeanor
appropriate to a customer-service position.   
 
Application Instructions:
Please apply on-line at www.kuendowment.org.  Attach your resume and cover
letter when applying for this position.
 
Questions regarding this vacancy may be addressed to:
 
Sandy Gilliland
Sr. HR Associate
KU Endowment
PO Box 928
Lawrence, KS 66044-0928
Email:  mailto:sgilliland@kuendowment.org
 
Review of applications begins immediately and continues until the position is
filled.  Because of the sensitive nature of KU Endowment business and the
importance of our reputation with donors, KU Endowment conducts a comprehensive
review of applicants.  By submitting your application, you authorize us to
conduct reference checks and a review of available public information. 
Employment is contingent upon background and reference checks that KU Endowment
finds acceptable.

Department: Development

Visit Careers at KU Endowment
Share this job
Apply Now
Leave this field blank 

Personal Information

* First name [                    ]
* Last name [                    ]
* Phone number [                    ]

Attachments

* Attach your Resume [                    ] [file-uploa] Attach
* Attach a Cover letter [                    ] [file-uploa] Attach

Other Information

Submit
Apply
Continue
Jobs page provided by The Applicant Manager
