Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

2016-3878

2016-3878

# of Openings 
    1

Location 
    US-NY-New York

Role 
    ..

More information about this job:

Knowledgent is a Data and Analytics Management consulting firm that helps
organizations to transform their information into business results. By
combining Data Science, Computer Science, and Domain expertise, we enable our
clients to implement innovative, data-driven business solutions. With offices
in New York City, Boston, Toronto, and Warren, NJ, Knowledgent works with
international organizations in the Life Sciences, Healthcare, and Financial
Services industries.

Knowledgent operates in the emerging world of Big Data as well as in the
established disciplines of Analytics and Visualization, Strategy and
Engineering, and Governance and Operations. Everyone at Knowledgent is an
Informationist - an Information Management and Analytics professional who
combines expertise in Data Architecture, Engineering, and Analysis with domain
knowledge to maximize information value and create business advantage.

Knowledgent was recently honored Informatica North America Channel Partner of
the Year for 2014, named among CIO Story?s 20 Most Powerful Big Data Solution
Providers for 2014, and recognized in Gartner?s ?Market Guide for MDM External
Service Providers? for 2015.

For more information, visit www.knowledgent.com.

Job Description:

 

  * Ability to guide and apply Machine Learning concepts to business problems
  * Work with  large data sets
  * Assist/mentor in creation Use Cases

Required Skills and Experience:

 

 

Must have:

  * Strong articulation skills
  * Data Scientist with real business experience
  * Experience with a Hadoop/spark/hive platform
  * Spark experience to build models, is a must 
  * Experience with Python, or R and Spark
  * Ability to guide them and apply machine learning concepts to business
    problems through Hadoop/Spark
  * Exposure to large data sets

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
#Go back to the welcome page
Help FAQ
