Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Research Analyst

Research Analyst

ID 
    2016-2152

# of Openings 
    1

Job Locations 
    US-VA-Vienna

Posted Date 
    12/22/2016

Category 
    Research

More information about this job:

Overview:

BRTRC, a growing government contractor, is seeking a Research Analyst.  This
full-time position is  located at our headquarters in Vienna/Tysons, Virginia,
to start, and has the strong possibility for transfer to another BRTRC office
or client location. 

Responsibilities:

The successful candidate will work in a corporate environment and gain exposure
to business structure, operations and decision making processes. This position
will provide support for various government and administrative projects, while
giving the candidate the opportunity to assess abilities and determine interest
in the industry for future career options and decisions.

The ability to work both independently, as well as part of a team, will result
in success. The selected candidate will possess strong problem solving skills,
sound judgment and solid analytical skills. The ability to take initiative,
follow direction and respond positively to constructive criticism will allow
for growth both personally and professionally.

 

Some trave may be required.

Qualifications:

  * 
      + Bachelor's Degree.
      + Must have at least five (5) years of experience and excellent skills in
        preparing event materials, scheduling meetings, assembling press
        clippings and developing reports.
      + Demonstrated competence in documentation management and desktop
        publishing in the preparation of fact sheets or newsletters.
      + Proven experience in preparing event materials, scheduling meetings,
        assembling press clippings and developing reports.
      + Working knowledge of event planning.
      + Some travel will be required.
      + DoD experience, particularly Navy preferred.
      + Ability to obtain a Secret clearance is required; active clearance
        preferred. 
      + EEO/AA Employer/Vets/Disabled
      + BRTRC offers a competitive salary, exceptional benefits, and a
        professional work environment.

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
#Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

