

Sr Associate - Data Scientist
KPMG
Irvine, CA United States


The fastest growing Big Four professional services firm in the U.S., KPMG is
known for being a great place to work and build a career. We provide audit, tax
and advisory services for organizations in today?s most important industries.
Our growth is driven by delivering real results for our clients. It?s also
enabled by our culture, which encourages individual development, embraces an
inclusive environment, rewards innovative excellence and supports our
communities. With qualities like those, it?s no wonder we?re consistently
ranked among the best companies to work for by Fortune Magazine, Consulting
Magazine, Working Mother Magazine, Diversity Inc. and others. If you?re as
passionate about your future as we are, join our team.

KPMG is currently seeking a Data Scientist, to join us in any major US city
with a KPMG office.

Responsibilities:

  * Analyze and model structured data using advanced statistical methods and
    implement algorithms and software needed to perform analyses
  * Build recommendation engines, spam classifiers, sentiment analyzers and
    classifiers for unstructured and semi-structured data
  * Cluster large amount of user generated content and process data in
    large-scale environments using Amazon EC2, Storm, Hadoop and Spark
  * Perform machine learning, natural language, and statistical analysis
    methods, such as classification, collaborative filtering, association
    rules, sentiment analysis, topic modeling, time-series analysis,
    regression, statistical inference, and validation methods
  * Drive client engagements focused on Big Data and Advanced Business
    Analytics, in diverse domains such as product development, marketing
    research, public policy, optimization, and risk management; communicate
    results and educate others through reports and presentations
  * Perform explanatory data analyses, generate and test working hypotheses,
    prepare and analyze historical data and identify patterns

Qualifications:

  * Five years of professional experience working as a Data Scientist
  * Experience with command-line scripting, data structures and algorithms and
    ability to work in a Linux environment, processing large amounts of data in
    a cloud environment
  * Masters degree or PhD from an accredited college/university in Computer
    Science, Statistics, Mathematics, Engineering, Bioinformatics, Physics,
    Operations Research, or related fields, with a minimum of two years of
    relevant experience (strong mathematical background with ability to
    understand algorithms and methods from a mathematical viewpoint and an
    intuitive viewpoint)
  * Strong knowledge in at least one of the following fields: machine learning,
    data visualization, statistical modeling, data mining, or information
    retrieval
  * Strong data extraction and processing, using MapReduce, Pig, and/or Hive
    preferred
  * Proficiency in analysis (e.g. R, SAS, Matlab) packages, programming
    languages (e.g. Java, Python, Ruby) as well as the ability to implement,
    maintain, and troubleshoot big data infrastructure, such as distributed
    processing paradigms, stream processing and databases such as Hadoop,
    Storm, SQL and Solr
  * Applicants must be currently authorized to work in the United States
    without the need for visa sponsorship now or in the future

KPMG offers a comprehensive compensation and benefits package. KPMG, an equal
opportunity employer/disability/veteran. KPMG maintains a drug-free workplace.
KPMG will consider for employment qualified applicants with criminal histories
in a manner consistent with the requirements of applicable local, state or
federal law (including San Francisco Ordinance number 131192). No phone calls
or agencies please.


Click here to apply for this position.*

Job code: 62400
52341654
