JavaScript is turned off in your web browser. Turn it on to take full advantage
of this site, then refresh the page.

Loading...
Powered by SuccessFactors
Sign In

Career Opportunities: Computer Vision / Machine Learning Algorithm Developer
(9321)

Req Id 9321 - Posted 12/20/2016 - 04 - Homeland Protection & Air Traffic Cntrl
 - 04-45 - Informatics and Decision Support - MIT Lincoln Laboratory, Lexington
MA - Engineering / Science / Technology - Mid-Level
  Job Description Print Preview
Apply Apply using LinkedIn™ Save Job Email Job to Friend Return to List

 

Group 45 - Informatics and Decision Support
The Informatics and Decision Support Group develops advanced software
systems,analytics, and human-systems interface solutions to improve the
timeliness, confidence,and optimality of decisions. The Group emphasizes
human-in-the-loop distributed and collaborative decision making and analytics
over big, heterogeneous, data sets. The application areas for the Group are
diverse, and include military deployment and distribution services, health
informatics, security and intelligence, transportation security, chemical and
biological defense, and disaster management. The technology focus for the Group
includes software architectures and systems, video analytics, serious games,
information mining and fusion, human factors, and natural language processing.
The Group's projects encompass and influence activities from early problem
definition and system concept definitions, to prototype development and
operator evaluations.
 

 

Job Description:

 

This position requires an engineer or computer scientist to aid in the
research, development, and testing of data interpretation algorithms for
Homeland Defense, Department of Defense, or Intelligence Community
applications, with an emphasis on image and video processing.  For defined
problems, candidates will be expected to evaluate existing data interpretation
algorithms, propose solutions for data interpretation problems based on careful
analysis, code proof-of-concept software systems, and assess performance on
realistic datasets.  Candidates will also be expected to help identify emerging
trends within the computer vision field, as well as their application to US
Government data interpretation operations.  Candidates should have general
knowledge in the fields of machine learning, pattern recognition, probability
theory, image/video processing, and basic software development.

 

Requirements:

The candidate must possess a Ph.D. in computer science, mathematics, electrical
engineering, or an equivalent field.  In lieu of an Ph.D. degree, an M.S degree
with at least five years of directly related research experience will be
considered.  Prior experience with computer vision algorithms is required, as
is broad familiarity with machine learning, pattern recognition, and
probability theory concepts.  Proficiency with Matlab, Python, or C/C++
development environments is strongly desired.

MIT Lincoln Laboratory is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) employer. All
qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment and will not be
discriminated against on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, veteran status, disability
status, or genetic information; U.S. citizenship is required.

 

Apply Apply using LinkedIn™ Save Job Email Job to Friend Return to List
Email this job to a friend
 

    

 
 

    
    The job has been sent to

 

                     Please provide the information below
             Job title:              
        *Your email address:         [                                        ]
   *Your friend's email address:     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
              Message:               [                                        ]
   Maximum character limit: 1000     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
                                     [                                        ]
         Verification code:          
*Please enter the verification code  
               here:

Send Cancel
