Apply Now

Data Scientist

at Thumbtack
San Francisco

Thumbtack is a local services marketplace that connects customers with the
right professionals for anything they need done. Every day we rally around the
impact Thumbtack has on people’s lives — helping people plan their perfect
wedding, families improve their homes, and small businesses grow and thrive.
Thumbtack today has 1,100+ types of services, millions of customer requests,
and hundreds of thousands of paying professionals. Join our growing team in the
quest to build THE destination for anything you need done.

About the Data Science Team

At Thumbtack, the Data Science team combines big data with innovative modeling
and analysis techniques to shape the system logic that serves millions of
customers and professionals. Challenging problems include:

  • Design innovative A/B testing techniques. Understanding the true impact of
    a test in Thumbtack’s marketplace requires well-designed separation among
    millions of interconnected customers and professionals, and sound
    methodology to interpret test results in the face of such extensive
    interconnection.
  • Model complex relationships in the presence of many confounding factors.
    Predictive modeling problems are everywhere across our product. Our team
    works to scope, design and implement machine learning models to support
    Thumbtack’s products.

About the Role

We're looking for data scientists with deep expertise in statistics, machine
learning, optimization, and/or building data products. Our process gives you
full ownership over the projects you tackle, so you should be a person who
dreams big, then executes well.

Responsibilities

  • Design and execute experiments, collect and analyze test data to guide
    launch decisions
  • Architect and deploy machine learning systems to production
  • Design and implement metrics that align with company goals
  • Analyze a wide variety of data: structured and unstructured, observational
    and experimental, with the goal of influencing system designs and
    implementations
  • Advise engineering and product teams on sound statistical practices

Must-Have Qualifications

  • M.S. or equivalent experience in Computer Science, Engineering, Statistics,
    or other relevant technical field
  • Expert knowledge of probability and statistics, including experimental
    design, predictive modeling, optimization, and causal inference
  • Familiarity with machine learning concepts: regression and classification,
    clustering, feature selection, feature engineering, curse of
    dimensionality, bias-variance tradeoff, neural networks, SVMs, etc.
  • A strong sense of connecting technical work to product impacts
  • Expert knowledge of a statistical computing language such as R or Python/
    pandas
  • Excellent written and verbal technical communication skills
  • Familiarity with a scripting language and/or shell scripting

Nice-to-Have Qualifications

  • Preferred: Ph.D. in Computer Science, Engineering, Statistics, or other
    relevant technical field
  • Preferred: Experience with large-scale distributed systems
  • Preferred: Experience with tools in the Hadoop ecosystem such as Hive, Pig,
    or Spark

More About Us

Thumbtack is the destination for getting things done—from house remodeling to
event planning to music lessons and more. Each year, more than 200,000
professionals across the country service a growing 5 million Thumbtack projects
in 1,100+ unique categories. Founded in 2009 and headquartered in San
Francisco, Thumbtack has raised more than $275 million from Sequoia Capital,
Tiger Global Management, Javelin Investment Partners, Baillie Gifford, and
Google Capital.

  • Learn more about our culture, benefits, and perks
  • Learn more about engineering at Thumbtack
  • Follow Thumbtack on LinkedIn

Thumbtack embraces diversity. We are proud to be an equal opportunity workplace
and do not discriminate on the basis of sex, race, color, age, sexual
orientation, gender identity, religion, national origin, citizenship, marital
status, veteran status, or disability status. Pursuant to the San Francisco
Fair Chance Ordinance, we will consider for employment qualified applicants
with arrest and conviction records.

Apply for this Job
* Required
First Name * [                    ]
Last Name * [                    ]
Email * [                    ]
Phone [                    ]
Resume/CV *
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
Cover Letter
Drop files here
File   X
Attach Dropbox Google Drive Paste
X
[                    ]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Who referred you to this position?
[                    ]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
[Submit Application]
Share this job:  
Powered by  Greenhouse Logo
Read our Privacy Policy
