Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Research Scientist - AWS New Artificial Intelligence Team!

Research Scientist - AWS New Artificial Intelligence Team!

Job ID 
    443300

Location 
    US-CA-Palo Alto

Posted Date 
    12/20/2016

Company 
    Amazon Web Services, Inc.

Recruiting Team 
    North American Teams - AWS

Job Description

Machine learning has been strategic to Amazon from the early years. We are
pioneers in areas such as recommendation engines, product search, eCommerce
fraud detection, and large-scale optimization of fulfillment center operations.
We have the richest, most diverse data of any Internet company. We also have a
very broad collection of practical problems where Learning systems can
dramatically improve the customer experience, reduce cost, and drive speed and
automation. We believe in the long-term impact of Machine Learning to all our
businesses.

The ML team within AWS provides opportunities to innovate in a start-up mode
and lets you contribute to game-changing projects and technologies that get
deployed on device or cloud. As a scientist in the AWS-ML team, you'll partner
with technology and business teams to build new services that surprise and
delight our customers. You will be working with terabytes of text, images, and
other types of data to solve real-world problems. You'll design and run
experiments, research new algorithms, and find new ways of optimizing risk,
profitability, and customer experience. Research science at Amazon is a highly
experimental activity. Besides theoretical analysis and innovation, our
scientists also work closely with software engineers to put algorithms into
practice. They also work on cross-disciplinary efforts with other scientists
within Amazon.

We’re looking for top scientists capable of using ML and other techniques to
design, evangelize, and implement state-of-the-art solutions for
never-before-solved problems. We have multiple positions available for applied
scientists in Seattle, Palo Alto and Sunnyvale for machine learning experts at
all career stages, from graduating doctoral students to internationally
renowned researchers and practitioners.



Basic Qualifications

· PhD in Computer Science, Machine Learning, Operational Research, Statistics
or a related quantitative field
· 5+ years of hands-on experience in predictive modeling and analysis
· Strong algorithm development experience
· Skills with Java, C++, or other programming language, as well as with R,
MATLAB, Python or similar scripting language

Preferred Qualifications

· 3-5+ years of relevant experience in industry and/or academia.
· The motivation to achieve results in a fast-paced environment.
· Experience with statistical modelling / machine learning
· Strong attention to detail
· Exceptional level of organization
· Comfortable working in a fast paced, highly collaborative, dynamic work
environment
· Ability to think creatively and solve problems
· Fluency in a foreign language
 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
