Menu ToggleMenu Hide

  • NYU Langone Home
  • Find a Doctor
  • News
  • Make a Gift
  • Calendars
  • Careers
  • Directions & Parking
  • Contact Us

NYU Langone Medical Center

  • Home
  • Why Choose NYU Langone
      □ Why Choose NYU Langone
      □ Our Organization
          ☆ Our Organization
          ☆ Our Hospitals Center
          ☆ NYU School of Medicine
          ☆ Ambulatory Care Sites & Faculty Practice
          ☆ Hospital for Joint Diseases
          ☆ NYU Lutheran
      □ Major Initiatives
          ☆ Major Initiatives
          ☆ Patient Care
          ☆ Research
          ☆ Education
          ☆ Campus Transformation
      □ Culture and Diversity
      □ Professional Development
      □ Benefits
      □ Working in NYC
      □ Our Values
          ☆ Our Values
          ☆ Living Our Values
      □ Residents, Interns, and Fellows
          ☆ Residents, Interns, and Fellows
          ☆ New Graduates
          ☆ Internships
          ☆ Administrative Fellowship
      □ Veteran’s Corner
      □ Employee Testimonials
  • Talent Areas
      □ Talent Areas
      □ Admin & Temp Support
          ☆ Admin & Temp Support
          ☆ Business Office
          ☆ Physician Practice
          ☆ NYU In-House Temp Program
      □ Allied Health
          ☆ Allied Health
          ☆ Clinical Labs
          ☆ Pharmacy
          ☆ Physician Assistants
          ☆ Radiology
          ☆ Rehabilitation Therapy
          ☆ Respiratory Therapy
          ☆ Psychology
          ☆ Food & Nutrition Services
          ☆ Social Work
      □ Clinical Support
          ☆ Clinical Support
          ☆ Medical Assistants
          ☆ Nursing Support
      □ IT & Epic
      □ Leadership Professionals
          ☆ Leadership Professionals
          ☆ Hospital Administration
          ☆ Department Administration
          ☆ Academic Administration
      □ Non-Clinical Professionals
          ☆ Non-Clinical Professionals
          ☆ Development & Alumni Affairs
          ☆ Finance & Revenue Cycle
          ☆ Human Resources
          ☆ Communications
          ☆ Supply Chain
          ☆ Strategic Planning
          ☆ Facilities
      □ Nursing
          ☆ Advanced Practice Nursing
          ☆ Cardiac and Surgical Services
          ☆ Care Management
          ☆ Critical Care
          ☆ Emergency Department
          ☆ Medical Services
          ☆ Neurosciences
          ☆ Nursing
          ☆ Nursing Professional Development
          ☆ Nursing Support
          ☆ Oncology
          ☆ Perioperative Services
          ☆ Scheduling Alternatives
          ☆ Welcome from the CNO
          ☆ Women’s & Children’s Services
      □ Research
      □ Support Services
          ☆ Support Services
          ☆ Dietary
          ☆ Housekeeping
          ☆ Central Service
          ☆ Security
  • Locations
  • FAQs
  • Current Employees
  • Job Search

{{title}} job at NYU Langone Medical Center – {{ref}}
You are here: Home / {{title}} job at NYU Langone Medical Center – {{ref}}

Sr. Data Analyst

Job ID: 1034194_RR00012860
Area of Talent: Research
Position Type: Full-Time/Regular
Location: NYU School of Medicine
Shift: 09:00 AM to 05:00 PM
Back to Job Search Results

Apply

Existing Resume Apply here
Add to Cart
View Cart

NYU Langone Medical Center, a world-class, patient-centered, integrated,
academic medical center, is one of the nation’s premier centers for excellence
in clinical care, biomedical research and medical education. Located in the
heart of Manhattan, NYU Langone is composed of four hospitals – Tisch Hospital,
its flagship acute care facility; Rusk Rehabilitation; the Hospital for Joint
Diseases, one of only five hospitals in the nation dedicated to orthopaedics
and rheumatology; and Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, a comprehensive pediatric
hospital supporting a full array of children’s health services across the
medical center – plus the NYU School of Medicine, which since 1841 has trained
thousands of physicians and scientists who have helped to shape the course of
medical history. The medical center’s tri-fold mission to serve, teach and
discover is achieved 365 days a year through the seamless integration of a
culture devoted to excellence in patient care, education and research. For more
information, go to www.NYULMC.org.

Position Summary:
We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Sr. Data Analyst.

In this role, the successful candidate The NYU Langone Comprehensive Obesity
Initiative is a new, institution-wide effort to better understand, treat and
manage obesity at the population and clinical levels. The Initiative unites
cutting-edge population health, clinical, and basic science research through a
uniquely comprehensive electronic data source — a multi-disciplinary
DataBridge. This rich resource will enable investigators to address
long-standing questions from completely new perspectives, using cutting-edge
machine learning and other big data techniques. Key insights will be translated
into real, evidence-based obesity prevention, treatment, and management
solutions.>>This position helps to build and test a large, comprehensive
repository for integration of diverse data pertaining to obesity (basic,
clinical, and population sciences). Contributes to the creation of a
user-friendly infrastructure that integrates and makes usable diverse and
disparate data, and provides foundations for integration of advanced machine
learning methods. Conducts wide-ranging analyses on these data, interprets and
presents outcomes.

Job Responsibilities:

  • Cultivate deep familiarity with methodological approaches and data from
    diverse sources including big data platforms, large administrative
    databases, small-scale survey data, clinical and basic science, and others,
    and work to construct a database integrating them together.
  • Build and test large, comprehensive repository for integration of diverse
    data (basic, clinical, and population sciences).
  • Continually manage ongoing additions to database. Import and clean raw
    datasets and create analytic datasets. Develop, manage, and improve
    databases to track provenance and versioning.
  • Advanced programming
  • Conduct comprehensive statistical analyses according to the study design
    (e.g., cross-sectional, time series, difference-in-difference, machine
    learning) and prepare sophisticated reports, charts and tables. Accurately
    and appropriately interpret and communicate results
  • Monitor, evaluate, and improve data quality. Detect and address issues in
    data, analytic results, and databases.
  • Suggest innovative solutions to data questions
  • Develop programs, methodologies, and files for analyzing and presenting
    data. Clearly communicate processes used and results achieved, and suggest
    new and alternative approaches.
  • Participate in data-driven decision making with investigators
  • Conduct relevant literature reviews to inform cohort selection, variable
    definitions, and analytic methods
  • Assist in writing and editing manuscripts for publication.

Minimum Qualifications:
To qualify you must have a 1. Masters in Data Science or equivalent combination
of education and experience>2. 5-6 years experience in database construction.
We are open to considering advanced and early-career data scientists.>3.
Familiarity with major machine learning models and data mining techniques.>4.
Able to write code well in Python, R, or C++. Prior extensive experience with
Python.>5. Experience with SQL database design and operations. >6. Passion
about being part of a team that solves big problems in health care.

Preferred Qualifications:
1. Familiarity with electronic health record databases.>2. Familiarity with
data driven modeling is a plus (including gathering and cleaning data,
exploratory analysis, implementing models, error analysis, and presenting the
findings)>3. Comfortable with interfacing between database and python-pandas or
other packages.>4. Experience with a few machine learning open-source packages
(such as sklearn)>5. Excellent communication skills

Qualified candidates must be able to effectively communicate with all levels of
the organization.

NYU Langone Medical Center provides its staff with far more than just a place
to work. Rather, we are an institution you can be proud of, an institution
where you’ll feel good about devoting your time and your talents. And just as
our employees invest so much in us, we invest in our employees. We’re pleased
to have one of the most competitive compensation packages not only among New
York’s hospitals and healthcare institutions, but within the corporate sector
as well. We begin with exceptional medical, dental, and drug coverage. We
enhance this basic coverage with comprehensive wellness programs, and
supplement those with retirement investment and benefits plans, and generous
paid time off allowances. Add to that a very attractive tuition program, and
you’ll see just some of the ways that NYU Langone Medical Center demonstrates
our commitment to our employees.

NYU Langone Medical Center is an equal opportunity and affirmative action
employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and
employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive
consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or
expression, sexual orientation, national origin, age, religion, creed,
disability, military and veteran status, genetic information or any other
factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. We
require applications to be completed online.
If you wish to view NYU Langone Medical Center’s EEO policies, please click
here. Please click here to view the Federal “EEO is the law” poster or visit
http://www1.eeoc.gov/employers/poster.cfm for more information.

Job Search

[                    ]
[Area of Talent                   ]
[Location                   ]
[Site Location                                      ]
[Search]
Tip: Use the Site Location menu to filter down to specific facilities for "NYU
School of Medicine" and "Ambulatory/Outpatient" locations.
Check Application Status
Click Here To View NYU Lutheran Opportunities

Hot Jobs

Sr Staff Nurse - 38th Street Ambulatory Center
New York, NY
Central Sterile Tech
New York, NY
FGP Sec II-Intake/Sched (35)
New York, NY
Medical Assistant (Temp Program)
New York, NY
Data Analyst
New York, NY

Connect With Us

Join Our Talent Network
Follow Us
Follow Us

Share this job

  • Share on Facebook
  • Share on Twitter
  • Share on Linkedin
  • Share by Mail

NYU Langone Home NYU School of Medicine For Faculty For Staff MyChart at NYU
Langone
Policies & Disclaimers Academic Departments
Disability: If you need assistance in accessing the careers site:212-404-3618
If you are experiencing technical difficulties:866-803-9663
Scroll to top
