[Bartech_Logo02232012]                                             Jan 10, 2017
Jobs Your Profile  Login

Job #178397: Professional

[Back to Search] [Apply to This Job]

Job Code: #178397
Title: Statistical Modeler / Data Analyst
Date Posted: 01/03/2017
Job Type: Full time
Job Location: Warren MI

Job Description:


Job Description

 

If you are an experienced Statistical Modeler / Data Analyst looking for a
position with a leading company, Bartech can help! We are a leading staffing
firm and our clients include some of the nation’s biggest companies.   Our
client has a need for a Statistical Modeler / Data Analyst. This is a contract
position; however it is not uncommon for assignments to transition into
permanent positions with our client companies. If you have the background we
are looking for, and you are interested in an opportunity to get your foot in
the door with leading company, we want to talk with you!

 

                      Statistical Modeler / Data Analyst

 

Job Responsibilities

 

Your specific duties as a Statistical Modeler / Data Analyst will include:

 

  • Analyze field data to provide insights on vehicle safety performance.
  • Develop subject matter expertise on external crash data sources (e.g.,
    NHTSA NASS/FARS data and UMTRI Market Segmentation data) and internal
    vehicle data to support analysis requests.
  • Respond to analysis requests with accurate results in a timely manner,
    utilizing standard approaches to pull information and summarize with
    appropriate statistical methods.
  • Effectively communicate results to project managers and teams charged with
    developing advanced safety technologies and strategies.
  • Serve as a database analyst for safety field performance data, e.g.,
    monitor data quality, develop queries, format results, explain boundary
    conditions, etc.
  • Leverage analytic skills to understand linkages between internal (e.g.,
    OnStar) and external safety performance-related datasets.
  • Support internal and external field research projects focused on safety
    performance and strategy development.
  • Work with external groups (e.g., ICAM, UMTRI) to understand how data was
    collected and analyzed to ensure proper interpretation and use of data.
  • Participate in technical vehicle safety forums as needed.

 

 

                      Statistical Modeler / Data Analyst

                                                                                                            

Job Requirements

 

As a Statistical Modeler / Data Analyst, you must represent our company well by
being responsible, punctual and motivated to go above and beyond the call of
duty. You must also be highly detail-oriented and organized with excellent
analytic and problem-solving abilities. It is also important that you display
excellent verbal and written communication and interpersonal skills

 

  • Bachelor’s Degree in Applied Statistics/Mathematics or related field with
    strong statistical background
  • Three or more years of experience with large database and data management
    and analysis software such as SAS, R, Minitab, JMP, Weibull++.
  • Knowledge of common statistical methods such as categorical data analysis,
    General Linearized Models (GLM), multivariate analysis, regression
    analysis, survey sampling design, survival/reliability analysis, design of
    experiments/analysis of variance, statistical graphics, statistical
    computing
  • Willingness to learn new skills and methods as needed – continuous learning
    mindset
  • Detail oriented with commitment to delivering high quality results
  • Understanding of vehicle safety technologies including design intent,
    function and intended performance in the field

Preferred:

  • Graduate Degree in Applied Statistics/Mathematics
  • Working knowledge of safety standards and regulations
  • Previous experience analyzing FARS and NASS databases
  • Five or more years of experience in vehicle development or validation of
    safety related systems or components

 

 

 

                      Statistical Modeler / Data Analyst

 

Benefits

 

As a Statistical Modeler / Data Analyst with Bartech, you will be working
through an established and respected staffing organization with 35 years of
serving as a trusted partner to our client companies. We are dedicated to
providing our talent with personal, responsive attention, and will assign an
employee care representative to answer any questions or concerns that you might
have. Depending upon the client, the assignment and your performance, you can
find potential opportunities for direct employment. Your hard work and
professional dedication will be rewarded with competitive compensation,
including benefits.

 

Available benefits for the Statistical Modeler / Data Analyst position include
(but are not limited to:

 

 

  • Exceptional medical, dental, and vision
  • 401(k)
  • Paid time off, including holidays
  • Life and disability insurance

 

                       Make the most of your experience!

                                  Apply now!

                                        

                                        

Applicant must be eligible to work in the US for immediate opening.


[Apply to This Job]

[Powered_by]

PLID: 4449
