Skip to Main Content
PeopleAdmin
University: Home | Calendar | Maps
[Enter Keywords      ] [Search]
(*) Site   ( )University
  • Home
  • Search Jobs
  • Create Account
  • Log In
  • Help

  • Benefits
  • Employment
  • Get to Know UTHSCSA
  • Policies

Research Scientist

Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary
documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening.
 To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button.

If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the
Bookmark link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your
records, click on the Print Preview link.

Bookmark this Posting | Print Preview | Apply for this Job

Position Template

Position Template

        Salary         Competitive
       Required        Master’s degree with two (2) years of related
    Qualifications     experience.

    Career Family      Research
  Air Force MOS Code
    Army MOS Code
 Marine Corp MOS Code
    Navy MOS Code
 Coast Guard MOS Code

Position Details

Position Information

  Job Title    Research Scientist
Work Location  Main Campus (7703 Floyd Curl Drive)
   Benefits    Yes
  Eligible?
Work Schedule  Monday – Friday; 8:00am – 5:00pm

  Number of    40
hours per week
   Is this
   position
 required to   No
  drive a UT
   vehicle?
               As a staff member in the UTHSCSA Center for Innovative Drug
               Discovery High Throughput Screening Facility, the person filling
               this position will plan and conduct small molecule high
               throughput screens targeting a wide variety of therapeutics
               areas such as cancer, neurodegenerative diseases, inflammation,
               obesity, diabetes, pain and aging for investigators from the
               south Texas research community. These activities will involve
               operating complex lab equipment, performing experimental
               procedures, as well as collecting, summarizing, interpreting and
     Job       reporting research data. Skills required include mammalian
 Description   tissue culture, experience in the use of fluorescence- and
               luminescence detection technologies, including high content
               imaging, and basic skills in molecular biology. This position
               will also have responsibility for the maintenance, and
               sub-plating of small molecule libraries as well as basic cell
               culture and laboratory maintenance. Importantly, the person
               filling this position will interact with users of the facility
               to determine screening formats that will best reflect the
               targeted biology. The position reports to the Director of the
               screening facility.

               • M.S. or Ph.D. in molecular biology, biochemistry, biology,
               chemistry or related discipline.
               • Strong troubleshooting skills as evidenced by experience.
               • Familiarity with basic laboratory techniques and biological
               assays.
               • Moderate/advanced computer skills for data analysis.
               • Experience with Word and Excel.
  Preferred    • Experience documenting and following procedures/protocols.
Qualifications • Experience with cell culture techniques.
               • Experience in high throughput screening, bioassay development
               and bioinformatics.
               • Experience with high-content imaging, or other aspects of
               fluorescence microscopy.
               • Experience with fluorescence- and luminescence-based detection
               technologies.

Combination of
   Relevant
Education and  No
  Experience
   accepted

Job Duties

           Design and perform miniaturized screens using purified components or
           cell-based and large chemical libraries of small molecule. This
           includes identification of appropriate protocols and detection
 Job Duty  strategies, as well as the maintenance and operation of robotic
           workstations. Develop, or assist in the development of, new
           techniques to be used in conducting experiments; perform
           troubleshooting as necessary so that experiments are not delayed.

Percentage 60
 Of Time

           Perform data analysis using various statistical software packages.
           Enter experimental data into large database systems, for
           prioritizing and tracking results from ongoing experiments.
 Job Duty  Evaluate, analyze and interpret research data to report this
           information to users of the HTS Facility and the Director of the HTS
           facility.

Percentage 20
 Of Time

           Assist in the preparation of research reports, manuscripts, papers
           and grant proposals for presentation, publication or application;
           research current scientific literature for novel or improved
 Job Duty  research protocols; work closely with the Director, other research
           staff members and technicians concerning scientific, research and
           administrative matters.

Percentage 10
 Of Time

     Job Duty      Prepare and maintain small molecule libraries.

Percentage Of Time 7

              Maintain supplies and order reagents; will be responsible for
  Job Duty    general laboratory maintenance.

Percentage Of 3
    Time

Posting Details

Posting Details

Requisition Number 20162394
     Special
 Instructions to
    Applicants
Security Sensitive All positions are security sensitive and will require
    Statement      criminal background checks.

                   We are an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer
  EEO Statement    which includes protected veterans and individuals with
                   disabilities.

Supplemental Questions

Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*).

 1. How did you hear about this career opportunity?
      □ Website - UT Health Science Center
      □ Indeed
      □ Social media (i.e. LinkedIn, Facebook, etc.)
      □ College/University
      □ Texas Workforce Commission
      □ UT Health Science Center employee referral
      □ Advertisement/External Publication
      □ Other
 2. What is the highest level of education attained?
      □ GED
      □ High School Diploma
      □ Associate's Degree
      □ Bachelor's Degree
      □ Master's Degree
      □ PHD
 3. Describe your experience as it relates to this position.

    (Open Ended Question)

Applicant Documents

Required Documents

 1. Curriculum Vitae

Optional Documents

 1. Cover Letter
 2. Letter of Recommendation
 3. Certification and Licenses
 4. Other

