Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Statistical Analyst

Statistical Analyst

Job ID 
    2016-2184

Location 
    US-MN-Maple Grove

Posted Date 
    12/19/2016

Category 
    Psychometrics - All Openings

More information about this job:

Responsibilities:

This position supports the Managing Senior, Psychometrics in the design,
computation, report generation, and data analyses of assigned educational
assessment projects.

As part of a psychometrics team:
? Assist in all psychometric and test development activities related to
assigned educational assessment projects, for example, test calibration, test
equating, item analysis, and dimensionality and reliability analysis.
? Assist in determining the design, analysis and evaluation of the systems,
processes, and services required to meet or exceed contract requirements.
? Assist with writing proposal sections related to psychometric activities.
? Assist in setting and achieving departmental goals.
? Some travel required.

Qualifications:

Required:
? A Bachelor's degree in mathematics, statistics or related field is required.
? Experience with statistical analysis software, e.g.SPSS
? Proficiency with Microsoft Office suite
? Excellent written and oral communication skills
? Strong organizational skills
? Ability to work effectively as part of a team
Preferred:
? Experience in educational assessment
? Programming experience
? Working knowledge of testing methodologies
? Experience with database structures
? Additional education related to measurement or statistics

 

Data Recognition Corporation is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity
Employer, M/F/D/V

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
#Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

