Skip to Main Content
Universitywide | New Brunswick | Newark | Camden | RBHS

University Search


University Human Resources Home
Rutgers University
Employment Opportunities

  • Home
  • Search Jobs
  • Create Account
  • Log In
  • Help

  • Applicant Tutorial
  • Employment FAQs
  • Benefits Information
  • About Rutgers
  • Other Job Postings at RU

Sign Up for Weekly Email Alerts about New Job Postings at Rutgers

Research Teaching Specialist V

Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary
documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening.
 To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button.

If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the
Bookmark link.  If you would like to print a copy of this position for your
records, click on the Print Preview link.

Bookmark this Posting | Print Preview | Apply for this Job

Position Details

Position Information

Recruitment
 /Posting   Research Teaching Specialist V
   Title
    Job     Staff & Executive - Research (Laboratory/Non-Laboratory)
 Category
Department  CINJ-Cancer Registry-Research
            Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey Vision, Mission, and Core
            Values:

            Our vision is to be a statewide, national and world leader of
            scientific discovery, transdisciplinary engagement, translation,
            patient care and education that improves outcomes for cancer
            patients and populations.
            We will accomplish this by conducting innovative basic, clinical
            and population research and cutting-edge patient-centered care that
 Overview   expands our understanding of the etiology and biology of cancer;
            facilitates the rapid translation of laboratory-based discoveries
            into human studies; develops new approaches and interventions for
            cancer prevention that decrease cancer incidence and mortality; and
            develops new and better therapies to decrease suffering and
            mortality from cancer.

            Core Values:
            Curiosity and Discovery, Integrity, Collaboration, Respect and
            Caring, Perseverance.

            Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, is seeking a Research
            Teaching Specialist V for The Rutgers Cancer Institute of New
            Jersey. The primary role of the Research Teaching Specialist V
            position, under the supervision of the Research Teaching Specialist
            I or Supervising Research Scientist, is to perform research
            activities utilizing data from the New Jersey State Cancer
            Registry. Among the key duties of this position are the following:

            • Performs various tasks in the conduct of epidemiological
  Posting   research, including subject recruitment, case validation,
  Summary   interviewing, and study database maintenance.
            • Participates as needed in IRB protocol application, submission,
            modification process to ensure compliance and continuity to study
            management.
            • Coordinates study mailings and other study communication
            materials.
            • Effectively participates in research study meetings.
            • Participates in the evaluation of existing procedures suggesting
            revisions where necessary, and proposing new procedures where
            required.

 Position   Full Time
  Status
 Hours Per
   Week
Daily Work
   Shift
   FLSA     Exempt
   Grade    17S
 Position
  Salary
  Annual
  Minimum   41226.000
  Salary
Annual Mid
   Range    49506.500
  Salary
  Annual
  Maximum   57787.000
  Salary
 Standard   37.50
   Hours
   Union    HPAE, Local 5094
Description
  Payroll   PeopleSoft
Designation
            Information about the benefits provided to Rutgers employees can be
 Benefits   found at: http://uhr.rutgers.edu/benefits/benefits-overview

 Seniority
   Unit
 Terms of   Staff - 12 month
Appointment
 Position
  Pension   ABP
Eligibility

Qualifications

Minimum Education • Bachelor’s Degree in Public Health or a relevant field is
 and Experience   required.

                  • Demonstrated excellent organizational, coordination and
                  problem-solving skills with attention to detail and an
                  ability to set priorities and maintain deadlines required.
                  • Must be computer literate with proficiency in database and
                  Microsoft Office Suite applications; willing to learn
    Required      specialized software.
   Knowledge,     • Demonstrated strong interpersonal and communication skills,
   Skills, and    including the ability to communicate effectively with
    Abilities     research subjects and multidisciplinary health professionals.
                  • Demonstrated ability to be highly motivated and work
                  effectively within the study team.
                  • Must have valid driver’s license and possesses own vehicle
                  or alternative means of transportation from one site to
                  another.

                  • Prior experience with cancer research and/or research
                  experience in an academic medical center setting preferred.
    Preferred     • Prior experience with statistical software (e.g. SAS, SPSS
 Qualifications   ), health/clinical background or bilingual skills (English/
                  Spanish) is preferred.

    Equipment
    Utilized
                  Physical Demands:
                  Sitting, standing, walking, talking and hearing. No special
Physical Demands  vision requirements. Lifting up to 25lbs.
    and Work
   Environment    Work Environment:
                  Office environment. Moderate noise.

     Special      • This multi-site position requires working in Trenton and
   Conditions     New Brunswick, NJ and traveling to various locations
                  throughout the state.

Posting Details

          Posting Number           17ST1028
        Posting Open Date
Special Instructions to Applicants
         Regional Campus           Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences
                                   (RBHS)
       Home Location Campus        Downtown New Brunswick
         Location Details

Affirmative Action/Equal Employment Opportunity Statement

It is university policy to provide equal employment opportunity to all its
employees and applicants for employment regardless of their race, creed, color,
national origin, age, ancestry, nationality, marital or domestic partnership or
civil union status, sex, pregnancy, gender identity or expression, disability
status, liability for military service, protected veteran status, affectional
or sexual orientation, atypical cellular or blood trait, genetic information
(including the refusal to submit to genetic testing), or any other category
protected by law. As an institution, we value diversity of background and
opinion, and prohibit discrimination or harassment on the basis of any legally
protected class in the areas of hiring, recruitment, promotion, transfer,
demotion, training, compensation, pay, fringe benefits, layoff, termination or
any other terms and conditions of employment. For additional information please
see the Non-Discrimination Statement at the following web address: http://
uhr.rutgers.edu/non-discrimination-statement

Supplemental Questions

Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*).

 1. * Do you have a Bachelor's degree in a healthcare related field?
      □ Yes
      □ No
 2. * Are you Bilingual in English/Spanish?
      □ Yes
      □ No

Applicant Documents

Required Documents

 1. Resume

Optional Documents

 1. Cover Letter/Letter of Application

It is university policy to provide equal employment opportunity to all its
employees and applicants for employment regardless of their race, creed, color,
national origin, age, ancestry, nationality, marital or domestic partnership or
civil union status, sex, pregnancy, gender identity or expression, disability
status, liability for military service, protected veteran status, affectional
or sexual orientation, atypical cellular or blood trait, genetic information
(including the refusal to submit to genetic testing), or any other category
protected by law. As an institution, we value diversity of background and
opinion, and prohibit discrimination or harassment on the basis of any legally
protected class in the areas of hiring, recruitment, promotion, transfer,
demotion, training, compensation, pay, fringe benefits, layoff, termination or
any other terms and conditions of employment. For additional information please
see the Non-Discrimination Statement.

  In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and the New
Jersey Law Against Discrimination (NJLAD), if you have a disability and would
like to request an accommodation with regard to your access to and/or your
participation in the application and selection processes (for example, the
online application process or interviews), please call 848-932-4444 or e-mail
us.

Rutgers University is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. If you
have questions about accessibility or trouble accessing this page website
because of a disability, please contact the Unit Computing Manager at
848-932-3864 or felix.arauz@rutgers.edu.

For technical assistance with the applicant tracking system (login, filling out
your application, resetting your password, etc.) please contact the ROCS Help
Desk at 848-932-4444 or ROCS@hr.rutgers.edu.

To learn more about Rutgers University’s commitment to diversity and inclusion
on its campuses, click here.

Copyright © 2014, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, an equal
opportunity, affirmative action institution.
Contact RU-info at 732-445-info (4639) | Questions? Ask Colonel Henry or text
us at 732-662-2664.

 

