Special Nonexistent Furniture

Shop Wayfair.com ?

Wayfair.com
ss_pt_2023916_simplified_footer_test_careers
about wayfair our story meet the team social responsibility careers partner
with us news room contact us
Wayfair is a rapidly growing company with a variety of career opportunities.
Wayfair, your online destination for everything home, is a dynamic, rapidly
growing company with exciting career opportunities. We offer engaging work in a
fun, fast-paced environment that encourages learning and growth, while
rewarding results and impact.

  * Working at Wayfair
  * Opportunities
  * Campus Recruiting

  * Overview
  * Analytics
  * Buying/Merchandising
  * Category Management
  * Creative & UX
  * Customer Service
  * Engineering
  * Finance
  * General & Administrative
  * Marketing
  * Media
  * Operations
  * Operations Product Innovation
  * Product Management
  * Sales
  * Talent Operations

The Wayfair Culture

From Boston to Berlin, every person at Wayfair is encouraged to contribute in a
meaningful and impactful way.

We look for individuals who are bright, collaborative, driven, and interested
in analytic insights. We believe transparency is important and information
empowers, so we give everyone access to company data and systems which improve
the speed and accuracy of decision making.

Smart risk-taking is encouraged even if it fails. We welcome employees to share
new ideas and we foster a positive learning environment where hard work is
rewarded.

Our Core Values

We Love a Zillion Options

Delivering options across styles and price points for our customers is what we
do. With more styles and more choice, there is more chance of finding stuff for
your home.

We Use Our Brains

We trust and empower our employees to build solutions and systems for complex
problems.

We Like Transparency

We gather and share information openly and transparently because it enables us
to figure things out, build relationships, and make shopping easier.

We Are Never Done

We?re passionate about continually making things better and faster through open
minds and teamwork, measuring results, then adjusting.

We Are ?Go-To? People

We are a company full of ?go-to? people who help each other, our customers, and
our communities by being active, accountable, and accessible.

Social Responsibility

Awards & Recognition

    2012
  * Best Places to Work, Employee Choice Awards, Glassdoor.com
  * Best Places for Work Life Balance, Glassdoor.com
  * Digital 100: Most Valuable Tech Companies in the World, Business Insider
  * Best Technology Companies to Work for in America, Business Insider

    2013
  * 16th Most Promising Company in America, Forbes Magazine
  * Ranked 52nd on Top 500 Retailer List, Internet Retailer Magazine
  * Fastest Growing Companies in Massachusetts, Boston Business Journal
  * Best Places to Work in Massachusetts, Boston Business Journal
  * CFO of the Year, Nicholas Malone, Boston Business Journal
  * Hottest Start-Up of 2013, New England Venture Capital Association
  * 40 Under 40 ? Niraj Shah, Fortune Magazine

    2014
  * Tech Luminary Award?Niraj Shah & Steve Conine, Boston Business Journal
  * Power 50?Most Influential Bostonians?Niraj Shah, Boston Business Journal
  * Ranked 45th on Top 500 Retailer List, Internet Retailer Magazine
  * Best Places to Work in Massachusetts, Boston Business Journal
  * Fastest Growing Companies in Massachusetts, Boston Business Journal

    2015
  * Exit of the Year, New England Venture Capital Association
  * Boston's 50 Most Powerful People- Niraj Shah, Boston Magazine
  * Inducted into MITX Innovation Hall of Fame?Niraj Shah & Steve Conine
  * The Largest Public Companies in Massachusetts, Boston Business Journal
  * Best Places to Work: Extra Large Cos., Boston Business Journal
  * Hot 100 Most Innovative Retailers, Internet Retailer Magazine

    2016
  * Ranked #33 on Top 500 Retailer List, Internet Retailer Magazine
  * Ranked #41 on Top 50 Retailing Giants, Home and Textiles Today
  * People's Choice Award for Favorite Customer Service, The Stevie Awards
  * Gold, Customer Service Department of the Year, The Stevie Awards
  * Ranked #1, Top 50 E-Marketing, Internet Retailer Magazine
  * Best Places to Work: Extra Large Cos., Boston Business Journal
  * Ranked #24 on Top 500 Retailer List, Internet Retailer Magazine
  * Ranked #15, America's Best Midsize Employers, Forbes

Our Commitment

Wayfair is committed to an environment that provides equal employment
opportunities to all employees and qualified candidates, without regard to
race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or
expression, age, national origin or disability.

Buying/Merchandising

The Buying/Merchandising team consists of entrepreneurially minded individuals
who build and execute tactical road maps for our rapidly growing businesses. By
adhering to a formula of strategic analysis, idea generation, and creative
presentation, we propel Wayfair forward as a key innovator in ecommerce. Buyers
move with a sense of urgency and autonomy to manage category verticals and
accompanying supplier portfolios, and exemplify style, creativity, and analytic
ability. Merchandisers oversee the look and feel of products, understand and
guide consumer behavior, and build customized, hand-curated landing pages to
create a one-of-a-kind shopping experience.

View open positions (24)

Buying/Merchandising Team:

?As a buyer, I?m encouraged to take a creative and analytical approach to
strategy building and problem solving. I feel empowered to drive all aspects of
my business.?- Karen, Buying Manager for Joss & Main

Analytics

The Analytics team collects, analyzes, and reports data to give the whole
company insight into the big picture. Our goal is to empower everyone at
Wayfair with timely, accurate, and actionable information. We love SQL and
Python, work with the best massively-parallel-processing databases to speed
analyses, and think critically to tackle complex challenges. Whether through
Business Intelligence, Data Science, Operations Research, or Pricing, we have
broad exposure to the workings of Wayfair and use our expertise in big data to
facilitate business decisions. When other Wayfair teams need to know about
customer, clickstream, product, financial, or other data, they count on
Analytics.

View open positions (27)

Analytics Team Stats:

116 Terabytes of compressed data stored in our data warehouse (138 terabytes
uncompressed)
250,000 lines of code executed each morning
170 pickup trucks worth of data added to the Data Warehouse every day (if we
were to print it all...but we don?t)
21,000 queries handled each day by our BI platform

Category Management

From Furniture to Home Improvement, the Category Management team handles a wide
range of responsibilities. We drive category growth by developing merchandising
strategies and conducting in-depth operational analyses to build supplier
relationships. We are results-driven, proactive, and enthusiastic leaders in
spearheading the growth of Wayfair's core business.

View open positions (29)

Category Management Team:

?The opportunity for growth at Wayfair is remarkable and has proven to be a
catalyst for both my career and personal development. I am consistently
supported by senior leadership to take calculated risks, attack goals, and
drive results.? - Bryanna, Senior Category Manager
?Wayfair is a place where I am able to receive continued mentorship to help me
achieve my career goals. The culture here is truly unique ? a collaborative,
fun, and fast-paced environment Mike, Associate Director

Creative & User Experience

As one of the largest in-house creative teams in Boston, Creative and UX
creates innovative, visually striking designs that enhance and promote the
Wayfair brand. Consisting of a multi-disciplinary group of art directors,
visual designers, UX designers, video editors, photographers, stylists, and
copywriters, we collaborate cross-functionally to develop inspired solutions
that secure Wayfair's position as a leader in the home industry.

View open positions (9)

Customer Service

The Customer Service team is passionate about guaranteeing an exceptional
experience for our shoppers. We work directly with customers to ensure that
their questions are answered and their needs are met, and make Wayfair an easy
and fun place to shop. We are energetic and enthusiastic problem solvers who
enjoy building meaningful relationships with our customers.

View open positions (24)

Customer Service Stats:

2,500,000 phone calls answered in 2015
1,800,000 emails answered in 2015
1,000,000 hours spent with customers in 2015
300,000+ live chats handled in 2015

Engineering

The Engineering team consists of talented and insightful individuals with
experience in IT operations and software engineering, and a passion for solving
complex business problems through software innovation. Our broad product
diversity and dynamic business model pushes the limits of software innovation
in the retail industry.

View open positions (38)
embed(//www.youtube.com/v/SRV985rb3Eo?version=3&hl=en_US)

Finance

The Finance team consists of detail-oriented, highly organized individuals who
oversee the company's financial well-being while supporting operational and
general business planning. We solve challenging accounting problems and provide
financial analyses to determine key operational decisions within a growing and
diversifying organization. We are dedicated to meeting new challenges head on
at each milestone in Wayfair's development and can adapt to changes within a
dynamic, fast-paced environment.

View open positions (9)

General & Administrative

The General & Administrative function includes a variety of teams essential to
the success of Wayfair, including administrative support, legal, facilities,
and operational support teams.

View open positions (0)

Marketing

The Marketing team is comprised of a bunch of quantitative and creative folks,
all who get excited to try new and innovative ways to help our customers know
and love Wayfair. We bring Wayfair to life for our customers, bringing more
customers to Wayfair and keeping existing customers coming back. The group
includes our Brand, Social Media, and PR teams who focus on upstream marketing
activities to drive awareness, our Customer Acquisition team who works on
multi-channel direct response marketing, and our Customer Loyalty team who
ensures we communicate relevantly with existing customers. Our work spans every
product category, five countries, and every customer segment. We are
continually experimenting and improving to find the best way to communicate and
deliver the best customer experience with Wayfair.

View open positions (16)

Media

The Wayfair Media Solutions teams consist of individuals who are exceptionally
versatile, acting as consultants, product developers, and marketers on a daily
basis. We deliver unique and innovative media products that drive our partners'
businesses, and work cross-functionally to kick-start and perfect new
entrepreneurial ventures that keep Wayfair on the cutting edge of ecommerce.

View open positions (0)

Media Stats:

450,000,000+ monthly ad impressions delivered
29,000,000+ unique monthly visitors
#1 Lifestyle - Home site

Operations

The Operations group focuses on providing world-class order fulfillment and
service with end-to-end order tracking and outstanding customer care.
Consisting of CastleGate, Distribution, EU Operations, Logistics,
Merchandising, Sales & Service, and Supplier Operations, we work with our
suppliers, carriers, and internal departments to ship products fast and
on-time, all while continuously improving the end experience for customers.

View open positions (127)

Operations Stats:

431,000,000 pounds of home goods shipped in 2015
14,600,000 orders shipped in 2015 - 28 orders every minute
940,000 unique products sold in 2015
3,300,000 new products added each year

Operations Product Innovation

Operations Product Innovation, an internal consulting team, uses technology to
make the business run more efficiently. By analyzing daily operations (Customer
Service, Outbound Sales, Product Catalog Management, Fulfillment, and
Warehousing), we find opportunities to improve the customer experience and
reduce costs?while collaborating with Engineering to bring our solutions to
life.

View open positions (19)

Product Management

Product management teams are responsible for differentiating Wayfair from its
competition across all aspects of e-commerce, from traffic acquisition to
storefront to supply chain to financial reconciliation to customer service. Our
product managers work closely with marketing, content, engineering, and design
teams to conceive and implement solutions. We conceive ideas, harness ideas by
collaborating with rest of the organization, write requirements, work with
engineering and design to get the ideas implemented, monitor the performance of
the ideas and optimize them. If you are a leader and bring a blend of
technical, business and customer focus, we want to hear from you.

  * Mobile Apps: We focus on iOS and Android phone and tablet usage across all
    Wayfair brands, both in the U.S. and internationally.
  * Frequency: We focus on 90-day repurchase, and experiences that continue to
    inspire our shoppers to choose Wayfair.
  * Find: We focus on high-intent shopping, including Search, as well as item
    verticals and compare tools.
  * Trust and Conversion: We focus on the mid- and bottom-funnel customer
    experience driving conversion.
  * H/C/M: We focus on mobile and desktop homepage and navigation experiences.
  * International: We focus on transforming data into insights and strategy to
    achieve international business goals.
  * B2B: We focus on Wayfair Business and Trade Services.

View open positions (8)

Sales

The Sales team consists of talented and energetic consultants who work directly
with customers ranging from direct consumers, business owners, trade experts,
and design professionals. We ensure that Wayfair is the go-to place for
customers to find products that meet their diverse needs. We strive to build
relationships with our customers in a fast-paced, commision-driven, and
competitive environment.

View open positions (14)

Sales Stats:

2,500,000 phone calls answered in 2015
1,800,000 emails answered in 2015
300,000+ live chats handled in 2015
1,000,000 hours spent with customers in 2015

Talent Operations

The Talent Operations team provides support for every Wayfair team member, from
recruitment and onboarding to learning/development and career management. We
empower employees to achieve their goals and help the company build the
talented team it needs to meet objectives. We are the group who makes sure the
fun, hardworking, and innovative culture of Wayfair is constant in the lives of
everyone who works here.

Our team consists of three strategic groups:

  * Learning & Development: We encourage learning and serve as a resource for
    all employees by handling New Hire Orientation, onboarding, learning and
    development courses, performance reviews, and management training programs.
  * Talent Acquisition: We partner closely with business leaders and hiring
    managers, and interview teams to identify, source, and obtain the best
    talent in the market. We are responsible for filling all open positions
    across the company, from university-level interns to experienced senior
    directors and VPs.
  * Talent Management: We are responsible for supporting our employees, who are
    the biggest factors in Wayfair?s success. From benefits administration, to
    recognition and engagement programs, we make sure that all employees
    globally have the resources and support they need to be successful.

View open positions (12)

Talent Operations Stats:

3,000+ full-time roles filled in 2015
134 employees in Talent Operations globally
629 Learning & Development sessions held in 2015
60+ new hires (on average) starting weekly across all global locations

Career Opportunities at Wayfair

View all open positions ? Check on an application you?ve submitted ?

Come Join the Home team!

As the largest and rapidly growing online-only retailer of home furnishings in
the United States, and active efforts focused on international growth and
success, Wayfair is the ideal place for ambitious campus talent to launch an
exciting e-commerce career.

Who We Recruit

We aren?t just looking for the brightest, sharpest, most creative minds across
multiple fields ? we are looking for Co-ops, interns, and soon-to-be-graduating
students who are passionate about innovating and defining a next generation
home shopping experience for millions of consumers worldwide. Are you one?

We are seeking students in a variety of areas, with the most opportunities
listed below:

  * Co-op: Creative, Operations, Marketing, Merchandising, Pricing, Data
    Science, Engineering
  * Undergraduate (FT / Intern): Business Intelligence / Analyst, Category
    Associate, Data Science, Pricing, Marketing, Operations, Site Merchandise,
    Inside Sales, Customer Service
  * Engineering (FT / Intern): Software Development, Infrastructure /
    Technology, Augmented Reality / UX, Data Science, Business Intelligence /
    Analyst
  * MBA (FT / Intern): Category Management, Finance, General Management,
    Marketing, Operations, Product Management

When and where we recruit

While our campus team is always looking for top campus talent, the best time to
apply is during our core recruiting seasons during the Fall (Sept-Nov) and
Winter (Jan-Mar), where most of our internship and post-grad opportunities are
filled.

From an on-campus perspective, we participate in activities at a select number
of schools each year. You may catch us on-campus attending career fairs,
conducting on-campus interviews, hosting networking events, etc.

If we do not currently recruit on-campus at your school, be sure to check out
our Campus Career page (you?re here) for the latest current openings and apply
directly.

We typically recruit Co-op students for two cohorts during the year:

  * Winter cohort - recruiting September through November for January start
  * Summer cohort - recruiting February through April for July start

What you will do

You?ll hit the ground running at Wayfair - challenging problems and projects,
real accountability, big impact.

We don?t believe in watered-downed onboarding periods nor do we believe in
top-down management. We empower everyone ? day one out of school ? with the
levers and decision-making authority to make an immediate impact on our
business. We expect people to make mistakes and learn from them rapidly. We
provide real-time mentorship in our open, collaborative work environment and
also formal training with Wayfair University.

If you like transparency, friendliness, a relaxed but results-driven work
environment filled with like-minded talent, Wayfair would like to hear from
you.

What you can become

We are a meritocracy - your impact propels your development, growth, and
career. We encourage people to take on more responsibility rapidly and try
different roles. As a rapidly growing company you?ll have every opportunity to
move your career in the direction your talents take you.

Open Positions for the Class of 2017

  * Business Analyst Intern- Summer 2017 Start Date
  * Business Analyst-Summer 2017 Start Date
  * Business Intelligence Intern-Summer 2017 Start Date
  * Category Management Associate - Summer 2017 Start Date
  * Category Management Intern - Summer 2017 Start Date
  * Data Scientist Intern: Pricing & Profitability Algorithms
  * Full Time Data Scientist - Pricing and Profitability Algorithms (Summer
    Start)
  * Full Time Software Engineer - Wayfair Labs (Summer 2017 Start Date)
  * Internal Consulting Analyst Intern-Summer 2017 Start Date
  * Legal Intern, Summer 2017 Start
  * MBA Summer Associate Program
  * Pricing & Profitability Analyst- Summer 2017 Start Date
  * Pricing & Profitability Intern- Summer 2017 Start Date
  * Site Merchandising Associate- Summer 2017 Start Date
  * Software Engineering Intern - Summer 2017
  * Wayfair Senior Manager Opportunities (MBA Graduates)

