Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Create/Maintain Profile
Log back in!

HR Data Scientist PERM

HR Data Scientist PERM

Job ID 
    2016-1271

Job Locations 
    US-UT-Lehi

Posted Date 
    12/6/2016

Category 
    Human Resources

More information about this job:

Overview:

Job Description:    
As an HR Data Scientist at IM Flash Technologies, LLC (IMFT), you will help to
shape IMFT’s people strategies by leading analyses and presenting key business
insights. You will connect business and workforce information to create
powerful insights that support IM Flash’s HR and business strategy. You will
find patterns in data as you draw from and build your skillset of data-mining
techniques from a broad range of fields including mathematics, statistics,
information technology, machine learning, data engineering, and design of
experiments, visualization, and text mining. You will present your polished
analyses to senior HR leaders and executives as they plan the future of people
programs.

Specific responsibilities of an HR Data Scientist include:
Understand business and HR strategy to develop a clear vision of analytics
potential
Work shoulder-to-shoulder with data engineers and HR system experts to access
existing data in our massive data warehouse or to articulate new data
requirements.
Develop causal and predictive models that explain or predict talent
acquisition, productivity, engagement, and retention.
Prepare and deliver powerful presentations with rich data visualizations and
meaningful business conclusions.
Ability to lead projects and present key insights and recommendations to
leadership and people that have varying levels of technical and business
knowledge.

Qualifications:

Degree Required:    MS or equivalent foreign education
Academic Discipline(s):    Statistician or Computer Science
Alternate Occupations
Accepted:    Electrical, Electronics, or Mechanical Engineering; or Information
Systems
Experience Required:    Two years of post-graduate experience

 


Specific Skills or other Requirements:
At least two years of experience working in advanced analytics/data science
role.
Strong grasp of data science concepts, specifically machine learning techniques
for developing and delivering analytical solutions using predictive modeling
and segmentation.
Experience with text analytics.
Experience with statistical, machine learning tools such as SPSS, SAS, R, Weka,
and business intelligence tools.
Experience with data modeling, data warehousing and working in database
management systems
All job offers will be contingent upon a successful drug screening and
background check.


 
Work Location:    4000 N. Flash Drive, Lehi, UT  84043
Hours of work:    Usually 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday



Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Email this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
●Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

