Skip to Main Content
Cold Springs Harbor Laboratory

Home

Cold Springs Harbor Laboratory

  • Home
  • Search Jobs
  • Create Account
  • Log In
  • Help

Life Science and Science History Researcher and Writer

Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary
documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening.
 To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button.

If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the
Bookmark link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your
records, click on the Print Preview link.

Bookmark this Requisition | Print Preview | Apply for this Job

Requisition Details

Requisition Information

Requisition Title  Life Science and Science History Researcher and Writer
 Functional Area   Library
Requisition Number 00268-E

Opening Information

 Job Status  Full Time
 Education   Graduate Degree
  Required
 Experience  None
  Required
             Life Science and Science History Researcher and Writer

             The Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Library and Archives is
             currently accepting applications for a person with excellent
             research and writing skills in Life Science and Science History.

             We are looking to fill an exciting new position reporting to the
             Executive Director of Libraries and Archives.

             This person will join the CSHL Library and Archives team working
             with the CSHL Scientific community on a variety of research
             projects. These include exploring the development of the modern
             biology, oral histories of prominent scientists, the history of
             the human genome project, assisting in organization of annual
  Position   meetings on specific topics in the history of life sciences, and
Description  the creation of exhibitions for display around the world. The
             highly collaborative environment at CSHL provides a unique
             opportunity for interacting with research scientists at all stages
             of their careers.

             The ideal candidate will have a strong interest in science,
             especially the areas of cancer, neuroscience, plant biology,
             genetics and bioinformatics, as well as history of science.
             Excellent writing skills are essential. The candidate will be an
             effective member of CSHL research teams and improve research
             output by providing expert guidance on data management and
             preservation, and information searching. The position also
             involves preparation and writing of grants in the history of
             science, and developing and promoting history of science special
             projects.

             Requirements:
             - Master’s degree (Ph.D. preferred) in the Life Sciences or in the
             history of science.
             - Experience working in a scientific environment
             - Excellent writing and communication skills are required
             - Familiarity with scholarly publications in the cancer, genetics
             and, or bioinformatics fields.
             - Familiarity with health and life sciences databases and thorough
             knowledge of search interfaces.
             - Familiarity with grant writing. Talent and desire for writing.
             Excellent interpersonal, multitasking, verbal and written
             communication skills.

             Applications are welcome from postdoctoral candidates.
  Position
Requirements Interested candidates should apply via the CSHL Careers website
             at:
             https://cshl.peopleadmin.com/postings/11130

             Position Number 00268-E

             For more information about CSHL, please visit https://www.cshl.edu

             CSHL is an EO/AA Employer. All qualified applicants will receive
             consideration for employment and will not be discriminated against
             on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation,
             gender identity, national origin, age, disability or protected
             veteran status.

             VEVRAA Federal Contractor

Requisition Specific Questions

Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*).

Applicant Documents

Required Documents

 1. Resume or Curriculum Vitae
 2. Cover Letter

Optional Documents

Cold Springs Harbor Laboratory

  • One Bungtown Road Cold Spring Harbor, NY 11724 516-367-8800
  • Contact
  • Site Map
  • Directions
  • Privacy Policy

