[GetLogoFil]

XSolis

Apply
Data Scientist
Nashville, TN | Posted December 5th
Apply
Description

Company Name: XSOLIS


XSOLIS is an entrepreneurial healthcare technology and services company based
in Nashville, Tennessee. Our products are designed to help hospital providers
make better clinical decisions and validate medical necessity, thus reducing
loss of revenues from denied insurance claims, today a top leadership priority
for hospitals across the country. This is accomplished through a sophisticated,
cloud-based data analytics platform, using real-time proprietary algorithms and
machine learning models, to evaluate clinical and other data, including
unstructured healthcare text, at the point of patient care. This results in
better care decisions, improves staff efficiency, reduces manual process,
improves hospital revenues and reduces risk. 


XSOLIS is seeking to fill a full-time Data Scientist position on the Analytics/
Data Sciences team. We are looking for a highly motivated, skilled individual
with a solid background in statistics, data analytics and computer technology
related to these areas. 


Duties & Responsibilities


? Perform data studies and statistical modeling experiments on of large,
complex data sets

? Develop algorithms and predictive models based on business needs using
machine learning/deep learning methodologies for both discrete data and
unstructured text

? Data visualization

? Collaboration with other scientists, database engineers and executive staff



Requirements

? Master or PhD in Statistics/Mathematics or related fields

? Experience in Machine Learning 

? Python programming/scripting language

? Strong written and verbal communications skill

? Working knowledge of MS SQL/T-SQL or Apache/Spark is a plus

? Healthcare data experience is a plus


XSOLIS provides a full range of standard employee benefits. Compensation is
commensurate with the candidate?s background and experience.


Apply
Powered by[pcty_logo_]

Please confirm

Are you sure?

Yes No
