Menu ToggleMenu Hide
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center

  * Home
  * Why MSK
      + Our Culture
      + Benefits
      + Diversity and Inclusion
      + Relocating To MSK
  * Career Areas
      + Administrative/Clerical
      + Allied Health
      + Craft/Skilled Trade
      + Faculty
      + Information Technology
      + Non-Clinical Professional
      + Nursing
      + Research
      + Service
      + Strategy and Innovation
      + Early Careers
  * Veterans
  * Locations
      + Josie Robertson Surgery Center
      + MSK Monmouth
      + Relocating To MSK
  * Job Search
  * FAQs

Sr. Strategic Analyst ( Data Scientist )

Job Posting Number: 9542

Strategy and Innovation
New York, NY
January 5, 2017
Apply
Add to Cart
Company Overview:

At Memorial Sloan Kettering (MSK), we?re not only changing the way we treat
cancer, but also the way the world thinks about it. By working together and
pushing forward with innovation and discovery, we?re driving excellence and
improving outcomes.

For the 26^th year, MSK has been named a top hospital for cancer by U.S. News &
World Report. We?re treating cancer, one patient at a time. Join us and make a
difference every day.

Job Description:

Patient Access Service
The Patient Access Service (PAS) is the front-door for the majority of Memorial
Sloan Kettering?s patients. A team of 60+ Care Advisors and nurses is charged
with helping patients access MSK clinicians by collecting information about
their medical history and treatments, identifying the right sub-specialist to
provide expert care, and coordinating appointment logistics.

Strategy Analytics Team
The Strategy Analytics team (within the Department of Strategy and Innovation)
leverages the power of data and analytics to shape strategic decisions at
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, a world renowned organization dedicated
to the progressive control and cure of cancer through programs of patient care,
research, and education.

Over the past 10 years, we have applied our expertise in quantitative
methodologies to investigate and improve operations, create long-term
strategies for the hospital?s growth, and redefine models for care delivery. We
were awarded the 2012 INFORMS Prize for ?repeatedly applying the principles of
advanced analytics and operations research / management science in pioneering,
varied, novel, and lasting ways.?

We focus on solving problems that will measurably impact the lives of our
patients and staff. Our team has close relationships with senior executives,
clinicians, and front-line staff, with whom we work closely to make the results
of our analyses practical and usable.

Embedded Analyst Program
This position is part of our Embedded Analyst Program, where Strategy &
Innovation analysts are embedded in various operational departments and
immersed in their challenges. These positions will report directly to
leadership of operational departments, and be supported (with training, tools,
and mentorship) from S&I.

The Role and Projects
We are seeking a Senior Strategic Analyst who will serve as the lead on
projects crucial to ensuring MSK?s growth and allowing patients continued
access to our clinicians? expertise (both major institutional priorities with
broad executive support). In partnership with the Director of Patient Access,
the Senior Strategic Analyst will empower data-driven decisions and process
improvement to improve patients? outcomes and experience. This will involve
defining and scoping analyses, collecting and managing data, performing
statistical and mathematical modeling, developing new tools and systems, and
sharing results. The Senior Strategic Analyst will also be involved in
mentoring and training junior analysts.

Sample projects include:

  * Growth Planning and Strategy: PAS leadership collaborates closely with
    clinicians and administrators on how to best grow and manage their
    services. How can we provide them additional insights to guide clinician
    recruitment and practice management?
  * Call Center Operations: Patient demand is variable and changing. How can we
    define optimal staffing and training policies so as to maximize service
    levels while maintaining staff satisfaction?
  * Predictive Modeling: How can we develop patient profiles in order to match
    them with the right staff? How can we utilize real-time language data
    (derived from the phone system) to guide Care Advisors? conversations?
  * Operational Dashboards: PAS Care Advisors are responsible for managing a
    complex case load. How can we better help them track their patients and
    eliminate process bottlenecks?

You are:

  * Adept at working with real-world data and extracting meaningful insights
    from it
  * Comfortable with using quantitative techniques (e.g. machine learning,
    forecasting, and predictive modeling) to solve business problems
  * Hungry to make processes and systems more effective and efficient
  * A versatile storyteller, able to communicate complex technical subjects to
    non-technical audiences
  * Curious, eager to tackle a wide variety of problems, and able to learn
    independently

You need:

  * Bachelors degree in a quantitative field (statistics, economics, operations
    research, mathematics, etc.).
  * 4-7 years of experience working with real-world data.
  * Expertise with relational databases and SQL queries.
  * Expertise in data visualization (especially Tableau).
  * Excellent verbal, written, and visual communication skills.

Nice to have:

  * Masters degree in a quantitative field.
  * Proficiency in statistical software (e.g. R, SAS, SPSS).
  * Proficiency in a programming language (e.g. Python, Java).
  * Prior work experience in a clinical setting.

WHEN APPLYING, PLEASE INCLUDE BOTH A RESUME AND A COVER LETTER (AS A SINGLE
PDF).

Closing:

MSK is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to
diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All
qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration
without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sexual
orientation, national origin, age, religion, creed, disability, veteran status
or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment
decision.

Federal law requires employers to provide reasonable accommodation to qualified
individuals with disabilities. Please tell us if you require a reasonable
accommodation to apply for a job or to perform your job. Examples of reasonable
accommodation include making a change to the application process or work
procedures, providing documents in an alternate format, using a sign language
interpreter, or using specialized equipment.

Share This Job

  * Share on Facebook
  * Share on Twitter
  * Share on Linkedin
  * Share by Mail

  * Connect with us:
  * Join our Talent community |
  * Follow |
  * Like |
  * Follow |
  * Watch

If a disability prevents you from applying for a job through this web site,
click here. No other requests will be acknowledged.

Careers Giving Gerstner Sloan Kettering Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences 
Library OneMSK
About us Pressroom OnCancer Blog Events Contact us
 
Legal disclaimer Privacy policy Public notices Site map

? 2017 Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center

Scroll to top
