Okta Careers

Data Analyst ? Marketing (Sr./Staff/Principal)

Business Operations San Francisco, California

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Apply

Title of Job: Data Analyst ? Marketing (Sr./Staff/Principal)
Role Located in: San Francisco 
Reports to: Sr. Director of Analytics & Big Data

Company Description: Okta is the foundation for secure connections between
people and technology. By harnessing the power of the cloud, Okta allows people
to access applications on any device at any time, while still enforcing strong
security protections. It integrates directly with an organization?s existing
directories and identity systems, as well as 4,000+ applications.

Because Okta runs on an integrated platform, organizations can implement the
service quickly at large scale and low total cost.

Thousands of customers, including Adobe, Allergan, Chiquita, LinkedIn, and
Western Union, trust Okta to help their organizations work faster, boost
revenue, and stay secure.

To learn more about Okta, visit: https://www.okta.com

Position Description: Okta is seeking a Data Analyst - Marketing to join our
Analytics & Big Data team. The successful candidate will play a key role in
driving data-based decision making in Okta?s Marketing organization. The ideal
candidate will have a passion for data, cutting edge cloud and big data
technologies, and analyzing marketing and strategy problems. You will partner
with Marketing and Marketing Operations

Job Duties and Responsibilities:

  * Partner with Marketing and Marketing Operations to develop key metrics and
    insights that drive the business
  * Perform statistical analysis on campaigns and analyze marketing funnels;
    communicate results and make actionable recommendations
  * Develop and refine our multi-touch attribution model
  * Advise teams on best practices for analysis, from structuring questions to
    interpreting the results. Advise on experimentation best practices.
  * Build reports, dashboards, and other data tools that enable self-service
  * Work with Data Engineering team to create requirements for new data sources
    and transformations in the Data Warehouse.

Minimum REQUIRED Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:

  * 3+ years of experience as a Marketing data analyst or data scientist
  * 3+ years hands-on SQL in a work environment; Redshift experience a plus
  * Ability to work with business users to develop requirements, execute
    analysis, explain results and make recommendations
  * Experience developing key metrics, reports and dashboards using Tableau or
    similar tool
  * Experience with R or another statistical package
  * Degree in statistics, math, economics, or other analytical fields; advanced
    degree a plus.

Okta is an Equal Opportunity Employer.

#LI-TC1

Apply Apply Later
? Back to Current Openings
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Share

LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Email

Powered by Jobvite

