Analytic Partners Careers

Data Scientist

Research & Development New York, New York

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Apply

Description

Analytic Partners is a fast growing global consultancy that leverages
innovative analytics and leading edge technology. As part of our dynamic team
you will be responsible for helping the world?s most sophisticated marketers
improve performance through more optimal spend allocation and enhanced
marketing execution. We are looking for smart, talented and hardworking team
members to support our growth.

Description

Analytic Partners is looking for Data Scientist candidates with strong analytic
and problem solving skills. As an employee at Analytic Partners, you will have
the opportunity to lead or assist in the methodology research that will
directly impact the business planning processes and strategic vision for our
clients.

Data Scientists at AP are integral to both the Project and R&D teams, aligning
research methodology tools and techniques with practical application to address
the evolving needs of our clients.

Responsibilities:

  * Work with ?big data? via hands on data processing and leading edge
    statistical modeling
  * Lead/assist in methodology research and solution deployment across
    marketing analytics, scientific attribution, predictive modeling,
    segmentation, simulation, forecasting and optimization
  * Employ sophisticated analytic methodologies to help clients work through
    challenging marketing planning issues and business questions
  * Identify innovative ways to drive efficiency in our data and modeling
    processes
  * Collaborate as part of a team to recommend methodology solutions that will
    lead to more informed decisions and improved business performance

Applicants should possess:

  * Masters degree in Data Science, Statistics, Economics, Econometrics,
    Operations Research, Engineering, Marketing Analytics and or relevant
    analytic fields
  * Experience with statistical software R, Python, SPSS, SAS, etc.
  * Experience in large scale databases and data management ? SQL and NoSQL
  * Highly analytical with strong problem solving skills
  * Strong attention to detail
  * Strong verbal and written communication skills
  * Desire and ability to work well with others in a team environment
  * Strong working knowledge of Microsoft PowerPoint and Excel
  * Quick learner, willing to learn and apply new knowledge

 

Analytic Partners is a fast-growing marketing analytics consulting firm with
global operations in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific. We provide
highly-customized, results-oriented analytics and consulting services including
marketing mix modeling, digital attribution, cross media attribution, pricing
strategy, promotional effectiveness, forecasting and marketing optimization. AP
is a client-focused, team-oriented organization where innovation and results
are rewarded, and individuals can chart the course of their own careers.

With a wide breadth of business experience and analytic techniques, we guide
our clients (many of whom are Fortune 500 companies) toward more cost-effective
and profitable marketing strategies. We help our clients make wiser choices for
their marketing budget, build market share, increase revenue and profit ? and
achieve their best Return on Investment (ROI).

The growth of Analytic Partners is made possible through the growth of our
people. We focus on strong development of our employees through ongoing
training, a wide variety of client opportunities across industries and analytic
approaches, and a corporate culture centered on meritocracy. At Analytic
Partners, your career is yours for the making ? this is a company where
innovation and results are rewarded, and you can chart the course of your own
career.

We offer a competitive salary and benefits package. Analytic Partners is an
Equal Opportunity Employer. Please visit our website at
www.analyticpartners.com.

Apply Apply Later
? Back to Current Openings
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Share

LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Email
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Similar Jobs

{{ job.title }}

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Powered by Jobvite

