Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist

Data Scientist

Job ID 
    2016-45829

# of Openings Remaining 
    1

Location 
    US-VA-McLean

Category 
    Information Technology

Residency Status 
    U.S. Citizenship Required

Clearance 
    Top Secret/SCI w/Poly

Employee Type 
    Regular

Desired Experience 
    ..

Time Type 
    Full Time

More information about this job:

Overview:

Vencore is a proven provider of information solutions, engineering and
analytics for the U.S. Government. With more than 40 years of experience
working in the defense, civilian and intelligence communities, Vencore designs,
develops and delivers high impact, mission-critical services and solutions to
overcome its customers most complex problems.

Headquartered in Chantilly, Virginia, Vencore employs 3,800 engineers,
analysts, IT specialists and other professionals who strive to be the best at
everything they do.

Vencore is an AA/EEO Employer - Minorities/Women/Veterans/Disabled

Responsibilities:

Involved in the analysis of unstructured and semi-structured data, including
latent semantic indexing (LSI), entity identification and tagging, complex
event processing (CEP), and the application of analysis algorithms on
distributed, clustered, and cloud-based high-performance infrastructures.
Exercises creativity in applying non-traditional approaches to large-scale
analysis of unstructured data in support of high-value use cases visualized
through multi-dimensional interfaces. Handle processing and index requests
against high-volume collections of data and high-velocity data streams. Has the
ability to make discoveries in the world of big data. Requires strong technical
and computational skills - engineering, physics, mathematics, coupled with the
ability to code design, develop, and deploy sophisticated applications using
advanced unstructured and semi-structured data analysis techniques and
utilizing high-performance computing environments. Has the ability to utilize
advance tools and computational skills to interpret, connect, predict and make
discoveries in complex data and deliver recommendations for business and
analytic decisions. Experience with software development, either an open-source
enterprise software development stack (Java/Linux/Ruby/Python) or a Windows
development stack (.NET, C#, C++). Experience with data transport and
transformation APIs and technologies such as JSON, XML, XSLT, JDBC, SOAP and
REST. Experience with Cloud-based data analysis tools including Hadoop and
Mahout, Acumulo, Hive, Impala, Pig, and similar. Experience with visual
analytic tools like Microsoft Pivot, Palantir, or Visual Analytics. Experience
with open source textual processing such as Lucene, Sphinx, Nutch or Solr.
Experience with entity extraction and conceptual search technologies such as
LSI, LDA, etc. Experience with machine learning, algorithm analysis, and data
clustering.

Qualifications:

Required:

BS degree or higher
5 years of experience with technical requirements, with at least one year in
the IC
Familiarity with the Executive Office of the President, the Intelligence
Community and other relevant communities.
Knowledge of Intelligence, Law Enforcement, and/or Homeland Security Community
organization, mission, and goals.
Top Secret security clearance with SCI and CI Poly


Desired:
Good oral and written communication skills, with both technical and
non-technical personnel.
Ability to work independently or in a team environment, as needed.

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
Share |


          Vencore is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer

#Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

