Skip to Main Content
Click to return to the Arlington County homepage
[Search our sites               ] Click to search 
 County Homepage

Employment Opportunities

Back to a list of current Arlington Job Openings    

Powered by NEOGOV

    Job Title:      DTS MANAGEMENT INTERN (PROCESS AND DATA ANALYSIS)

Closing Date/Time:  Thu. 01/26/17 11:59 PM Eastern Time

     Salary:        $38,625.60 - $77,584.00 Annually

    Job Type:       Full-Time Temporary

    Location:       2100 Clarendon Blvd., Arlington *METRO-accessible*,
                    Virginia

 

Print Job Information | Apply  

 
Position Information  Benefits  Supplemental Questions
 
EXCITING OPPORTUNITIES FOR A RECENT IT GRADUATE TO DEVELOP SKILLS IN
DELIVERING NEXT GENERATION TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS!
One Year, Full-Time, Paid Internship Program
 
The Department of Technology Services (DTS) is seeking a bright, highly
motivated recent Information Technology graduate to provide him or her with an
exciting one-year internship within a dynamic technology organization. This is
an opportunity to individuals with little or no previous professional work
experience to prepare them for a career in Information Technology. This
internship will offer a recent college graduate or currently enrolled graduate
student with in-depth, hands-on learning opportunities in areas critical to
supporting a local government structure. Over the course of a year, this
employee will work under the supervision of senior staff members to gain
valuable on-the-job training and real-world experience, support the County's
efforts to consistently work toward greater efficiency and effectiveness
through improved processes, fresh ideas and leveraged smart technologies, and
become familiar with public sector work environment as a viable and fulfilling
career path.

The Process and Data Analysis Management Intern will be a focal point for
technology requests coming into the Digital Innovation Group. He or she will
be responsible for receiving the requests, sharing them with appropriate DIG
teams, contributing to the requests and reporting progress. The Intern will
perform the extraction, transformation and loading (ETL) for new data sets
needed to complete technology requests and will develop a data set inventory
and dictionary.

The Intern will also compile a list of data analytics tools, build a
preliminary set of data analytics tool requirements, and perform external
research to assess the County's current and projected needs for data analytics
tools. The Intern will present findings to DIG leadership

The Process and Data Analysis Intern will support the process refinement
efforts of the Process and Data Analysis team and other DIG teams. He or she
will draft and update a variety of business process documentation in order to
collect information from the business and relay our recommendations and
results effectively back to them. The Intern will offer recommendations for
improvements, innovations and cultural shifts that will help improve the
efficiency, accessibility and accountability of the business unit.

                              Selection Criteria:
MINIMUM: Must have received a Bachelor's or Master's degree within the past
year (2015, 2016) OR currently enrolled in a Master's degree program OR will
complete the requirements for the Bachelor's degree before starting work.

Degree Requirements: Bachelor's and/or Master's degree in Computer Science,
Computer Engineering, Computer Management Information Systems, Business
Administration with IT focus, Mathematics, IT Project Management or closely
related field is required
We anticipate filling this position by March 1, 2017. Therefore, applications
will be accepted from candidates graduating with an undergraduate degree no
later than March, 2017. Candidates may be currently pursuing a Master's degree
in their IT-related field.

Note: Applicants may not have significant professional work experience related
to the internship for which they are applying.

Successful candidates will demonstrate the following:

  * Self-motivationwith a desire to excel;
  * Excellent analytical, quantitative and problem-solving abilities;
  * Ability to manage multiple projects and/or tasks and easily switch focus
    as required;
  * Ability to research and understand technical documentation and best
    practices;
  * Outstanding interpersonal skills - ability to interact effectively in a
    team environment;
  * Excellent verbal and written communication skills;
  * Exceptional attention to detail and strong organizational & planning
    skills; and/or
  * Strong customer service orientation.


                             Special Requirements:
A resume will not substitute for the completed application.  Your responses to
the Supplemental Questionnaire are considered part of the selection process. 
Please do not enter "see resume" as a response to the questions. Incomplete
applications will not be considered.
                            Additional Information:
Management Interns are eligible for health, dental and leave benefits.

Management Intern positions are funded for one year.  These positions do not
become permanent positions nor are Management Interns transferred
automatically to permanent positions.  At the end of the internship,
management interns are encouraged to apply and compete for vacant positions
throughout the County.
 
Contact Us ? Frequently Asked Questions ? Terms and Conditions ? Accessibility
2100 Clarendon Blvd. Arlington, VA 22201 Tel: 703-228-3000 TTY: 703-228-4611
