Protonophore-resistance and cytochrome expression in mutant strains of the facultative alkaliphile Bacillus firmus OF4.
Two protonophore-resistant mutants, designated strains CC1 and CC2, of the facultative alkaliphile Bacillus firmus OF4 811M were isolated. The ability of carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP) to collapse the protonmotive force (delta mu H+) was unimpaired in both mutants. Both resistant strains possessed elevated respiratory rates when grown at pH 7.5, in either the presence or absence of CCCP. Membrane cytochromes were also elevated: cytochrome o in particular in strain CC1, and cytochromes aa3, b, c and o in strain CC2. Strain CC2 also maintained a higher delta mu H+ than the others when grown in the absence of CCCP. When grown in the presence of low concentrations of CCCP, strains CC1 and CC2 both maintained higher values of delta mu H+ than the wild-type parent and correspondingly higher capacities for ATP synthesis. In large-scale batch culture at pH 10.5, both mutant strains grew more slowly than the parent and contained significantly reduced levels of cytochrome o. Cells of stran CC1 also displayed a markedly altered membrane lipid composition when grown at pH 10.5. Unlike previously characterized protonophore-resistant strains of B. subtilis and B. megaterium, neither B. firmus mutant possessed any ability above that of the parent strain to synthesize ATP at given suboptimal values of delta mu H+. Instead, both resistant alkaliphile strains maintained a higher delta mu H+ and a correspondingly higher delta Gp than the parent strain when growing in sublethal concentrations of CCCP, apparently as a result of mutational changes affecting respiratory chain composition. Also of note in both the mutant and the wild-type strains was a marked elevation in the level of one of the multiple terminal oxidases, an aa3-type cytochrome, during growth at pH 7.5 in the presence of CCCP or during growth at pH 10.5, i.e. two conditions that reduce the bulk delta mu H+.