Computational approach for prediction of domain organization and substrate specificity of modular polyketide synthases.
Modular polyketide synthases (PKSs) are large multi-enzymatic, multi-domain megasynthases, which are involved in the biosynthesis of a class of pharmaceutically important natural products, namely polyketides. These enzymes harbor a set of repetitive active sites termed modules and the domains present in each module dictate the chemical moiety that would add to a growing polyketide chain. This modular logic of biosynthesis has been exploited with reasonable success to produce several novel compounds by genetic manipulation. However, for harnessing their vast potential of combinatorial biosynthesis, it is essential to develop knowledge based in silico approaches for correlating the sequence and domain organization of PKSs to their polyketide products. In this work, we have carried out extensive sequence analysis of experimentally characterized PKS clusters to develop an automated computational protocol for unambiguous identification of various PKS domains in a polypeptide sequence. A structure based approach has been used to identify the putative active site residues of acyltransferase (AT) domains, which control the specificities for various starter and extender units during polyketide biosynthesis. On the basis of the analysis of the active site residues and molecular modelling of substrates in the active site of representative AT domains, we have identified a crucial residue that is likely to play a major role in discriminating between malonate and methylmalonate during selection of extender groups by this domain. Structural modelling has also explained the experimentally observed chiral preference of AT domain in substrate selection. This computational protocol has been used to predict the domain organization and substrate specificity for PKS clusters from various microbial genomes. The results of our analysis as well as the computational tools for prediction of domain organization and substrate specificity have been organized in the form of a searchable computerized database (PKSDB). PKSDB would serve as a valuable tool for identification of polyketide products biosynthesized by uncharacterized PKS clusters. This database can also provide guidelines for rational design of experiments to engineer novel polyketides.