Insertional mutagenesis and recovery of interrupted genes of Streptococcus mutans by using transposon Tn917: preliminary characterization of mutants displaying acid sensitivity and nutritional requirements.
New vectors were constructed for efficient transposon Tn917-mediated mutagenesis of poorly transformable strains of Streptococcus mutans(pTV1-OK) and subsequent recovery of interrupted genes in Escherichia coli (pT21delta2TetM). In this report, we demonstrate the utility of Tn917 mutagenesis of a poorly transformable strain of S. mutans (JH1005) by showing (i) the conditional replication of pTV1-OK, a repA(Ts) derivative of the broad-host-range plasmid pWVO1 harboring Tn9l7, in JH1005 at the permissive temperature (30 degrees C) versus that at the nonpermissive temperature (45 degrees C); (ii) transposition frequencies similar to those reported for Bacillus subtilis (10(-5) to 10(-4)) with efficient plasmid curing in 90 to 97% of the erythromycin-resistant survivors following a temperature shift to 42 to 45 degrees C; and (iii) the apparent randomness of Tn917 insertion as determined by Southern hybridization analysis and the ability to isolate nutritional mutants, mutants in acid tolerance, and mutants in bacteriocin production, at frequencies ranging from 0.1 to 0.7%. Recovery of transposon-interrupted genes was achieved by two methods: (i) marker rescue in E. coli with the recovery vector pTV21delta2TetM, a tetracycline-resistant and ampicillin-sensitive Tn9l7-pBR322 hybrid, and (ii) "shotgun" cloning of genomic libraries of Tn917 mutants into pUC19. Sequence analyses revealed insertions at five different genetic loci in sequences displaying homologies to Clostridium spp.fhs (66% identity), E. coli dfp (43% identity), and B. subtilis ylxM-ffh (58% identity), icd (citC [69% identity]), and argD (61% identity). Insertions in icd and argD caused nutritional requirements; the one in ylxM-ffh caused acid sensitivity, while those in fhs and dfp caused both acid sensitivity and nutritional requirements. This paper describes the construction of pTV1-OK and demonstrates that it can be efficiently employed to deliver Tn917 into S. mutans for genetic analyses with some degree of randomness and that insertions in the chromosome can be easily recovered for subsequent characterization. This represents the first published report of successful Tn9l7 mutagenesis in the genus Streptococcus.