Purification of proteins similar to HPr and enzyme I from the oral bacterium Streptococcus salivarius.
Biochemical and immunochemical properties. The phosphoenolpyruvate:sugar phosphotransferase system (PTS) is made of several proteins. Two of them are designated general proteins because they are required for the transport and phosphorylation of all sugars of the PTS. These two proteins are found in the soluble fraction of cellular extracts and are termed HPr and enzyme I (EI). We reported in this work the purification and the characterization of these two proteins from Streptococcus salivarius ATCC 25975. HPr was purified by DEAE-cellulose chromatography, molecular sieving on Ultrogel AcA44, and carboxymethylcellulose chromatography. Sodium dodecyl sulfate electrophoresis in the presence of urea revealed a single band with a molecular weight of 6700. The protein contained no tryptophan and had a pI of 4.8. The purification scheme of EI was as follows: DEAE-cellulose chromatography, hydroxylapatite chromatography, DEAE-Sephadex A-50 chromatography, preparative electrophoresis, and molecular sieving on Ultrogel AcA34. The five-step purification for EI produced a 199-fold purified preparation with a specific activity of 530 mumol of HPr phosphorylated per minute per milligram of protein at 37 degrees C. The fraction obtained after filtration on Ultrogel AcA34 gave one band (68 000) on sodium dodecyl sulfate - polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The molecular weight of the native enzyme determined by gel filtration at 4 degrees C was 135 000, suggesting that it was a dimer. Enzyme I had a pI of 4.2, a pH optimum of 6.7, a Km for HPr of about 27 microM, a Km for phosphoenolpyruvate of 0.48 mM, and kinetics that were consistent with a Ping-Pong mechanism. Evidence had been obtained which indicated that S. salivarius enzyme I was antigenically very similar to enzyme I from various strains of Streptococcus mutans, but not to the enzyme from Bacillus subtilis, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus faecalis, and Escherichia coli.