Identification of a novel two-component regulatory system that acts in global regulation of virulence factors of Staphylococcus aureus.
We have previously demonstrated that the presence of oxygen is necessary for the production of toxic shock syndrome toxin 1 (TSST-1) by Staphylococcus aureus in vitro. To investigate the mechanism by which oxygen might regulate toxin production, we identified homologs in S. aureus of the Bacillus subtilis resDE genes. The two-component regulatory system encoded by resDE, ResD-ResE, has been implicated in the global regulation of aerobic and anaerobic respiratory metabolism in B. subtilis. We have designated the S. aureus homologs srrAB (staphylococcal respiratory response). The effects of srrAB expression on expression of RNAIII (the effector molecule of the agr locus) and on production of TSST-1 (an exotoxin) and protein A (a surface-associated virulence factor) were investigated. Expression of RNAIII was inversely related to expression of srrAB. Disruption of srrB resulted in increased levels of RNAIII, while expression of srrAB in trans on a multicopy plasmid resulted in repression of RNAIII transcription, particularly in microaerobic conditions. Disruption of srrB resulted in decreased production of TSST-1 under microaerobic conditions and, to a lesser extent, under aerobic conditions as well. Overexpression of srrAB resulted in nearly complete repression of TSST-1 production in both microaerobic and aerobic conditions. Protein A production by the srrB mutant was upregulated in microaerobic conditions and decreased in aerobic conditions. Protein A production was restored to nearly wild-type levels by complementation of srrAB into the null mutant. These results indicate that the putative two-component system encoded by srrAB, SrrA-SrrB, acts in the global regulation of staphylococcal virulence factors, and may repress virulence factors under low-oxygen conditions. Furthermore, srrAB may provide a mechanistic link between respiratory metabolism, environmental signals, and regulation of virulence factors in S. aureus.