Isolation and characterization of hydrophobic proteins (H proteins) in the membrane fraction of Bacillus subtilis.
Involvement in membrane biosynthesis and the formation of biochemically active membrane vesicles by combining H proteins with lipid. Cytoplasmic membranes of Bacillus subtilis, grown in complex medium containing glucose, were fractionated into three membrane subfractions [light band (1.155 - 1.158 g/cm3); medium band (1.181 - 1.183 g/cm3); heavy band (1.21 - 1.25 g/cm3)] by sucrose density gradient centrifugation. Among these subfractions, the light and medium bands consisted mainly of membranes but the heavy band consisted of an irregular arrangement or aggregate of small globular protein components of 5 - 8 nm in diameter. We named this H-protein. H-protein formed trilamellar unit membrane structure when combined with lipid. In pulse-labeling and pulse-chase experiments with radioactive leucine, it was found that H-protein consisted of the newest membrane protein synthesized in the cells and the label incorporated into H-protein was shifted into light and medium band of the membranes during the chase. Cytochromes were not found in H-protein. However, when H-protein was incubated with haem alpha and protohaem, these compounds were incorporated into the apoproteins of the cytochromes present in H-protein and form cytochromes a and b. Cytochromes were also formed in H-protein which were isolated from the cells grown in the presence of haemin (haemin-grown H protein). Succinate dehydrogenase activity was increased about 4-fold by combining H-protein or haemin-grown H protein with lipid. H-protein had no cytochrome oxidase activity; however, haemin-grown H protein was found to have some of the activity and this was increased about 4-fold by combining the protein with lipid. Haemin-grown H protein was also found to form succinate: cytochrome c oxidoreductase when combined with lipid and vitamin K2. On the other hand, succinate oxidase was required for the addition of lipid, vitamin K2 and cytochrome c. NADH oxidase was also found in haemin-grown H protein and was activated about 9-fold in constituted reaction systems. Vesicles formed by haemin-grown H protein and lipid, could accumulate alanine and proline by addition of NADH or reduced phenazine methosulfate. Alanine and proline was also accumulated into the vesicles when transport energy was supplied as a membrane potential introduced by K+-diffusion via valinomycin. These results would indicate that H-protein contains the apoprotein of cytochromes, and a carrier involved in the active transport of alanine and proline.