Cadmium transport, resistance, and toxicity in bacteria, algae, and fungi.
Cadmium is an important environmental pollutant and a potent toxicant to bacteria, algae, and fungi. Mechanisms of Cd toxicity and resistance are variable, depending on the organism. It is very clear that the form of the metal and the environment it is studied in, play an important role in how Cd exerts its effect and how the organism(s) responds. A wide range of Cd concentrations have been used to designate resistance in organisms. To date, no concentration has been specified that is applicable to all species studied under standardized conditions. Cadmium exerts its toxic effect(s) over a wide range of concentrations. In most cases, algae and cyanobacteria are the most sensitive organisms, whereas bacteria and fungi appear to be more resistant. In some bacteria, plasmid-encoded resistance can lead to reduced Cd2+ uptake. However, some Gram-negative bacteria without plasmids are just as resistant to Cd as are bacteria containing plasmids encoding for Cd resistance. According to Silver and Misra (1984), there is no evidence for enzymatic or chemical transformations associated with Cd resistance. Insufficient information is available on the genetics of Cd uptake and resistance in cyanobacteria and algae. Mechanisms remain largely unknown at this point in time. Cadmium is toxic to these organisms, causing severe inhibition of such physiological processes as growth, photosynthesis, and nitrogen fixation at concentrations less than 2 ppm, and often in the ppb range (Tables 2 and 3). Cadmium also causes pronounced morphological aberrations in these organisms, which are probably related to deleterious effects on cell division. This may be direct or indirect, as a result of Cd effects on protein synthesis and cellular organelles such as mitochondria and chloroplasts. Cadmium is accumulated internally in algae (Table 4) as a result of a two-phase uptake process. The first phase involves a rapid physicochemical adsorption of Cd onto cell wall binding sites, which are probably proteins and (or) polysaccharides. This is followed by a lag period and then a slow, steady intracellular uptake. This latter phase is energy dependent and may involve transport systems used to accumulate other divalent cations, such as Mn2+ and Ca2+. Some data indicate that Cd resistance, and possibly uptake, in algae and cyanobacteria is controlled by a plasmid-encoded gene(s). Although considerable information is available on Cd toxicity to, and uptake in fungi, further work is clearly needed in several areas. There is little information about Cd uptake by filamentous fungi, and even in yeasts, information on the specificity, kinetics, and mechanisms of Cd uptake is limited.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)