Characterization of a chimeric proU operon in a subtilin-producing mutant of Bacillus subtilis 168.
The ability to respond to osmotic stress by osmoregulation is common to virtually all living cells. Gram-negative bacteria such as Escherichia coli and Salmonella typhimurium can achieve osmotolerance by import of osmoprotectants such as proline and glycine betaine by an import system encoded in an operon called proU with genes for proteins ProV, ProW, and ProX. In this report, we describe the discovery of a proU-type locus in the gram-positive bacterium Bacillus subtilis. It contains four open reading frames (ProV, ProW, ProX, and ProZ) with homology to the gram-negative ProU proteins, with the B. subtilis ProV, ProW, and ProX proteins having sequence homologies of 35, 29, and 17%, respectively, to the E. coli proteins. The B. subtilis ProZ protein is similar to the ProW protein but is smaller and, accordingly, may fulfill a novel role in osmoprotection. The B. subtilis proU locus was discovered while exploring the chromosomal sequence upstream from the spa operon in B. subtilis LH45, which is a subtilin-producing mutant of B. subtilis 168. B. subtilis LH45 had been previously constructed by transformation of strain 168 with linear DNA from B. subtilis ATCC 6633 (W. Liu and J. N. Hansen, J. Bacteriol. 173:7387-7390, 1991). Hybridization experiments showed that LH45 resulted from recombination in a region of homology in the proV gene, so that the proU locus in LH45 is a chimera between strains 168 and 6633. Despite being a chimera, this proU locus was fully functional in its ability to confer osmotolerance when glycine betaine was available in the medium. Conversely, a mutant (LH45 deltaproU) in which most of the proU locus had been deleted grew poorly at high osmolarity in the presence of glycine betaine. We conclude that the proU-like locus in B. subtilis LH45 is a gram-positive counterpart of the proU locus in gram-negative bacteria and probably evolved prior to the evolutionary split of prokaryotes into gram-positive and gram-negative forms.