Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

BioTelemetry Research - Data Analyst

BioTelemetry Research - Data Analyst

Job ID 
    2016-2401

# Positions 
    1

Location 
    US-NY-Rochester

Experience (Years) 
    ..

Posted Date 
    1/9/2017

Category 
    ..

Company 
    Cardiocore Biotelemetry Research

More information about this job:

Overview:

BioTelemetry Research

Data Analyst

Rochester, NY

 

The Data Analyst is responsible for performing many of the standard tasks
within Data Management (DM), including routine data and image file deliveries,
analysis result forms, and first level support for electronic data transfer by
Imaging Sites.

Responsibilities:

Data Deliveries:

  * Documentation: Creates and maintains DM Delivery Work Instructions
    detailing the process steps required for standardized data deliveries. This
    ensures that all deliveries within DM follow a repeatable process and
    assist with cross-training within DM.
  * Deliveries: Performs the tasks identified within the DM Delivery Work
    Instructions to extract and verify output for routine deliverables within
    DM. Is able to critically assess the output to detect obvious failures
    within the process.
  * Works with several internal and third-party applications to perform and
    enable delivery of raw and analyzed image files.

 

 

Support for Imaging Sites doing Electronic Image File Transfer:

  * Creates and sends secure credentials to globally-based Imaging Sites to
    enable the electronic submission of imaging files through various
    third-party secure file transfer (sFTP) applications.
  * Troubleshoots and resolves access-related issues with the sFTP systems.
  * Enables access for internal users for our third-party receipt and quality
    inspection application.
  * Works with the internal and external users to identify and classify issues
    involving the use of these third-party applications. Wherever possible,
    resolves first-line issues in a

timely manner. Escalates and tracks resolution of issues that exceed first
level support

Qualifications:

  * Bachelor?s degree, or Associate?s degree with applicable experience.
  * Must have good troubleshooting and communication skills to accurately
    resolve routine technical issues and concerns with data image files and
    convey it to other internal departments and customers.
  * Prior experience in a customer service (?help desk?) environment is a very
    desirable
  * Experience working in a highly-regulated environment a plus.
  * Working knowledge of Microsoft Office applications, especially Outlook and
    Excel.
  * Experience with File Transfer Protocols, database reporting tools, XML and
    VBScript a plus.

Company:

Cardiocore Biotelemetry Research

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
#Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

