Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

European Research Analyst

European Research Analyst

ID 
    2016-1767

# of Openings 
    1

Job Location 
    NL-Amsterdam

Posted Date 
    1/6/2017

More information about this job:

Company Overview:

USAA Real Estate Company was founded in 1982 as the real estate investment arm
of USAA. With over $16 billion in assets under management, the company provides
co-investment asset management services to U.S. pension funds, as well as to
foreign and domestic institutional investors. USAA Real Estate Company also
provides capital to partners for development. The portfolio consists of office,
medical office, industrial, multi-family, retail and hotel properties as well
as investments in real estate operating companies.  Our commitment to service
and integrity reflects the core values put in place 90 years ago by our parent
company, a trusted worldwide insurance and financial services organization. 
USAA Real Estate Company is headquartered in San Antonio, TX.  www.usrealco.com

 

USAA Realco-Europe, BV is the European subsidiary company of USAA Real Estate
Company.  The company was formed in 2014 and is based in Amsterdam, the
Netherlands.  USAA Realco-Europe, BV is a pan-European investor that is
currently primarily focused on the creation of a modern logistics portfolio in
Europe, largely through development in a joint venture.  With time, it is
expected that USAA Realco-Europe, BV will include other property types in
Europe as well as expand its co-investment activities in Europe through the
creation of fund and separate account vehicles.

Job Description:

JOB PURPOSE:

 

Responsible for conducting research with the objective of informing and
enhancing company leadership, the real estate investment process, capital
raising, and client services.  The primary focus of the role is on day-to-day
deliverables, based upon research needs.

 

ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:

  • Work in close collaboration with the U.S. quantitative research analyst
    ensuring that quantitative processes and analysis are integral to any
    recommendation.
  • Work in close collaboration with both in-house portfolio managers, European
    investment and fundraising groups, and external investment and research
    groups to ensure complete and accurate research.
  • Use in-depth economic and real estate market analysis to underpin
    investment recommendations.
  • Work with European Investment and Asset Management department to develop,
    maintain and communicate forecasts of key economic and real estate
    variables.
  • Contribute to the development of appropriate local, regional, national and
    international investment strategies as required.
  • Work closely with the European Investment department in the development of
    appropriate underwriting assumptions and the characterization of potential
    investment opportunities
  • Work with research team members to support the management of real estate
    databases and subscriptions. Ensure the databases of reports, market data,
    and forecasts are maintained and up-to-date. Engage the support of IT as
    needed.
  • Attend research team meetings and actively contribute to the discussion.
  • Communicate complex technical ideas in a non-technical manner as
    appropriate to the audience.
  • Support European office with investment, fundraising, and asset management
    projects as necessary.
  • Support USAA Real Estate team members in developing relevant and coherent
    presentations.
  • Maintain up-to-date knowledge of market and property research and the
    broader real estate markets.
  • Produce research reports and thought pieces on market conditions and issues
    of interest and importance to the real estate investment community.
  • Work under broad supervision and substantial interdependence.
  • Carry out other duties as required.

 

At USAA Real Estate Company our employees enjoy generous benefits packages
including comprehensive medical, dental and vision plans, 401k, USAA Membership
eligibility, educational and professional designation assistance, business
casual dress attire and much more! https://www.usrealco.com/careers/
benefits.aspx  Qualified applicants must successfully complete a pre-employment
background and drug screen.  The above description reflects the details
considered necessary to describe the principal functions of the job and should
not be construed as a detailed description of all the work requirements that
may be performed in the job.

 

USAA Real Estate Company is an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action
Employer of Females, Minorities, Veterans and Disabled.

Requirements:

Minimum Qualifications:

  • Bachelor’s Degree in Real Estate, Finance, Economics, Mathematics,
    Statistics, or Econometrics. A liberal arts degree with excellent writing
    skills will also be given strong consideration.
  • Graduate degree and/or professional designation is a plus.
  • Real Estate research experience within a leading real estate consultant,
    investment manager, developer, investment bank, or a relevant alternative
    is a plus.

Key Competencies:

  • Strong analytical and quantitative skills.  Highly skilled in financial
    analysis.
  • Proficiency with Microsoft Office suite, with strong proficiency in Excel.
  • High level of proficiency with Argus.
  • Exceptional written and verbal communication skills.

Physical Requirements:

  • Regularly required to sit for extended periods of time; frequently required
    to stand, walk, and use business equipment daily such as computer, copier,
    fax, telephone, etc.; frequently required to reach overhead, bend, and lift
    objects of up to 25 lbs.
  • Ability to handle stress caused by multiple priorities, and other
    unforeseen situations associated with the organization.
  • Eyesight and hearing must be correctable to standard level.

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
Share on your newsfeed

  • Share this job on your Social Network!
    | More


    ●Go back to the welcome page
