logo
My Profile / My Saved Jobs / Network With Us Search
[                    ]
[Search]
Search
[                    ] [Go]

  • Jobs/
    BackJobs
      □ Search Jobs
      □ My Profile
      □ My Saved Jobs
      □ My Saved Searches
    Search all Jobs
  • Why Work Here/
    BackWhy Work Here
      □ Corporate Fast Facts
      □ Our Businesses
      □ Our Affiliates
      □ Our Locations
      □ Top 7 Reasons
      □ Rewards & Benefits
      □ Mission & Values
      □ Our Work Environment
      □ Diversity
      □ Meet Our People
      □ Awards & Recognition
      □ Newsroom
      □ Transitioning Military
    See Why We Work Here
  • Career Areas/
    BackCareer Areas
      □ Customer Service & Claims
        BackCustomer Service & Claims
          ☆ Claims
          ☆ Customer Service & Call Center
          ☆ Billing
          ☆ Enrollment & Eligibility
      □ Clinical
        BackClinical
          ☆ Nurse & Nurse Leadership
          ☆ Nurse Practitioners & Physicians Assistants
          ☆ Physicians
          ☆ Pharmacy
          ☆ Behavioral Health
          ☆ Clinical Support
          ☆ Medical Coding
      □ Health Care Operations
        BackHealth Care Operations
          ☆ Actuarial
          ☆ Health Care Economics
          ☆ Underwriting
          ☆ Provider Relations
          ☆ Executive Leadership
          ☆ Network Management & Contract & Pricing
          ☆ Regulatory & Compliance
      □ Corporate Services
        BackCorporate Services
          ☆ Administrative Support Services
          ☆ Finance and Accounting
          ☆ Legal
          ☆ Human Resources
          ☆ Business Operations Leadership
      □ Sales & Marketing
        BackSales & Marketing
          ☆ Account Management
          ☆ Communications
          ☆ Product Development & Management
          ☆ Sales & Sales Support
          ☆ Marketing & Advertising
          ☆ Telesales
      □ Project Management
        BackProject Management
          ☆ Six Sigma Project Management
          ☆ IT Project Management
          ☆ Business Project Management
      □ Consulting
        BackConsulting
          ☆ Optum Consulting
          ☆ Optum360 Consulting
          ☆ Government Consulting
      □ Technology
        BackTechnology
          ☆ Applications & Web Development
          ☆ Software Engineering
          ☆ Security & Risk Management
          ☆ Data Analytics & Warehousing
          ☆ Architecture
          ☆ Systems Analysis
          ☆ Network & Infrastructure
    See all Career Areas
  • Getting Hired/
    BackGetting Hired
      □ Recruiter Chat
      □ Career Events
      □ Go Social
      □ UnitedHealth Group Blog
      □ Our Hiring Process
      □ Digital Video Interviewing
      □ Transitioning Military
      □ Resume Advice
      □ Interview Tips
      □ Frequently Asked Questions
    See All Getting Hired
  • College
    BackCollege
      □ Is UnitedHealth Group For You
      □ Life at UnitedHealth Group
      □ Meet Our Recruiters
      □ Student Programs
      □ Explore Your Options
      □ Campus Recruiting Events
      □ College Recruiting Blog
      □ Frequently Asked Questions
    College

Job Search: [Enter Keyword, job t]
[Enter a city, state,] [Select a Region or Country     ] 
[Select a Job Field            ] [Go]
Jobs in U.S. & Canada Jobs outside U.S. & Canada
EMAIL PRINT
Careers at UnitedHealth Group > Data Scientist - Eden Prairie, MN
Find All Jobs near me [                    ] [                    ]

Data Scientist - Eden Prairie, MN

Bookmark and Share
Save this job
Email this job
Text This Job

[]
Saved Jobs Data Scientist - Eden Prairie, MN - 686886

Apply Now Apply Now

Position Description

No industry is moving faster than health care. And no organization is better
positioned to lead health care forward. We need attention to every detail with
an eye for the points no one has considered. The rewards for performance are
significant. You'll help improve the health of millions. And you'll do your
life's best work.(sm)

 

This position will help to develop the machine learning and data forecasting
blueprint for an emerging R&D team. This role will be working with big data
across multiple healthcare and non-healthcare platforms. This role will be
responsible for modeling complex business problems, uncovering data anomalies,
discovering business insights and identifying opportunities through the use of
statistical, algorithmic, mining and visualization techniques.

 

The team is primarily focused on developing an application that supports
business leaders with emerging technology trend mapping, competitive threat and
white space identification, and forecasting various business and health events.

 

We are looking for someone who enjoys diving deeply into the material to find
an answer to a yet unknown question. This individual will need to have a
natural desire to go beneath the surface of a problem and to ask the right
(business) questions. Data Scientists work closely with the product team and
engineers to turn data into actionable signals and useable knowledge that can
be used to make decisions. In addition to advanced analytical skills, this role
is also proficient at integrating and preparing large, varied datasets,
architecting specialized database and computing environments and communicating
results.

 

Primary Responsibilities:

  • Translate business objectives into enterprise level machine learning
    solutions
  • Utilize statistical, mathematical, predictive modeling as well as business
    strategy skills to build the algorithms necessary to ask the right
    questions and find the right answers
  • Designs experiments, test hypotheses, and build models
  • Develop solutions to loosely defined business problems by leveraging
    pattern detection over potentially large datasets
  • Propose innovative ways to look at problems using machine learning & data
    mining
  • Validate findings using an experimental and iterative approach
  • Identify data gaps and extend the company’s data with third party sources
    of information when needed
  • Support the data ingestion process through helping process, cleanse, and
    verify the integrity of data used for analysis
  • Be comfortable doing ad-hoc analysis and presenting results to senior and
    executive leadership
  • Be able to develop, test, implement, iterate & support solutions
  • Be excited about wearing multiple hats to help out the team to complete the
    product
  • Bring forward ideas for new features and product offerings
  • Summarize and present findings; adjust the content and level of detail to
    appropriate level of the audience
  • Present “art of the possible” solutions

Character:

  • A fearless attitude, sense of humor, flexible by nature, comfortable with
    ambiguity
  • Highly motivated, collaborative and enthusiastic
  • Confident in your talent, without an ego
  • Vision, drive, and commitment to create something important
  • Self - directed approach with positive attitude
  • Desire to continuously learn and willingness to engage in new concepts and
    technologies
  • Contributes to positive & collaborative culture of team
  • Excited by leading edge technologies

 



Requirements

To be considered for this position, applicants need to meet the qualifications
listed in this posting.

Required Qualifications:

  • Experience in developing enterprise level machine learning solutions
  • Experience with NoSQL databases, such as Mark logic, MongoDB, Cassandra, or
    HBase
  • 3+ years of progressively responsible experience in conducting analytic
    projects
  • 3+ years of experience with R, Python, or other Data Science tools
  • Undergraduate degree in computer science or related field of study

Preferred Qualifications:

  • Experience with data science toolkits, such as R, Weka, Python, etc.
  • Experience applying machine learning using distributed systems like Hadoop,
    Hive, Spark or similar libraries
  • Excellent understanding of machine learning techniques and algorithms, such
    as k - NN, Naive Bayes, SVM, Decision Forests, etc.
  • Proficiency in using query languages such as SQL, Hive, Pig, SPARQL
  • At ease presenting to and influencing all levels within the organization
  • Experience working in an Agile Software Development environment
  • Organized, able to think beyond what is asked for, and able to juggle
    competing priorities in a fast - paced, often evolving environment
  • Experience working within a Fortune 500 company

Technology Careers with Optum. Information and technology have amazing power to
transform the health care industry and improve people's lives. This is where
it's happening. This is where you'll help solve the problems that have never
been solved. We're freeing information so it can be used safely and securely
wherever it's needed. We're creating the very best ideas that can most easily
be put into action to help our clients improve the quality of care and lower
costs for millions. This is where the best and the brightest work together to
make positive change a reality. This is the place to do your life's best work.
(sm)

                                        


   Diversity creates a healthier atmosphere: UnitedHealth Group is an Equal
    Employment Opportunity / Affirmative Action employer and all qualified
 applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
     color, religion, sex, age, national origin, protected veteran status,
 disability status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, marital
  status, genetic information, or any other characteristic protected by law.

UnitedHealth Group is a drug - free workplace. Candidates are required to pass
                   a drug test before beginning employment.

 

 

Job Keywords: Associate Data Scientist, NoSQL, Marklogic, MongoDB, Cassandra,
HBase, R, Python, Data Science, computer science, IT, information technology,
Hadoop, Hive, Spark, SVM, SQL, SPARQL, Pig, agile, Eden Prairie, MN, Minnesota

Apply Now Apply Now
Save this job Email this job Text this job Share this Job Bookmark and Share
Job Details

Contest Number:   686886
Job Title:        Data Scientist - Eden Prairie, MN
Job Family:       OptumInsight Consulting
Business Segment: Optum Technology

Job Location Information:

Region:                               North America
Country:                              United States
City:                                 Eden Prairie
State/Province:                       Minnesota
Other States where Job(s) is Located: ,,,,
Other Cities where job(s) is Located: ,,,,

Additional Job Detail Information:

Employee Status:       Regular
Schedule:              Full-time
Job Level:             Individual Contributor
Shift:                 Day Job
Travel:                No
Telecommuter Position: No
Overtime Status:       Exempt

Saved Jobs
0 Saved Jobs
View saved jobs
Similar Jobs
Duluth, GA
Vice President, Medicare Actuarial Consulting - Multiple Locations or
Telecommute691629

Eden Prairie, MN
Optum Consulting - Director, Payment Integrity Consulting - Telecommute698177

Eden Prairie, MN
Data Scientist - Eden Prairie, MN686886

Find a Career
rc_legal

Legal & Compliance

You’ll work to safeguard company assets and monitor compliance with one of the
most prominent players in the health care industry.

Find a Job
APPLY APPLY SAVE

  • Site Links

      □ Network With Us
      □ Report a Problem
      □ Site Feedback
  • corporate web site

      □ UnitedHealth Group Home
      □ About Us
      □ Businesses
      □ Social Responsibility
      □ Investors
      □ Newsroom
      □ Diversity & Inclusion
  • Social responsibility & diversity

          ☆ At UnitedHealth Group, we are committed to a powerful idea - that
            accessible,
            affordable and quality health care should be available to everyone.
          ☆ Visit the Social Responsibility Website
          ☆ We embrace and encourage a culture of diversity and inclusion. We
            know that valuing diversity makes good business sense and helps to
            ensure our future success.
          ☆ Learn more at our Corporate Diversity & Inclusion web site
  • Fraudulent Activity

        We have received recent reports of fraudulent emails purporting to be
        sent from UnitedHealth Group, UnitedHealthcare, or Optum recruiting
        personnel.
         
        The fraudulent emails, which do not originate from any of UnitedHealth
        Group’s email domains, or those of any of its operating divisions,
        supposedly ask recipients to contact the sender to start the company’s
        hiring process by downloading software and/or requesting a fee.
         
        UnitedHealth Group will never request you download software or pay a
        fee of any sort to explore employment opportunities with our company.

        If you wish to verify the legitimacy of any email purporting to have
        been sent by or on behalf of UnitedHealth Group recruiters,  please
        call 1-800-561-0861 between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. CT, Monday - Friday, for
        assistance. You also may inquire via email to lifesbestwork@uhg.com.

  • Choose Your Country

      □ North America
          ☆ United States
      □ Asia Pacific
          ☆ India
          ☆ Philippines
      □ Europe Middle East and Africa
          ☆ United Kingdom
          ☆ Ireland
      □ Latin America
          ☆ Brazil

facebookinstagramLogoTypeCWSfront1fwbloggergpluslinkedinpinteresttwitteryoutube
glassdoor


Contact Us  Privacy Policy  Family & Medical Leave Act  Equal Employment Law
Poster  Pay Transparency  Employee Polygraph Protection Act  E-Verify
Participation Poster  OSC Right to Work Poster

© 2016 UnitedHealth Group, All rights reserved.

UnitedHealth Group is committed to working with and providing reasonable
accommodations to individuals with physical and mental disabilities. If you
need special assistance or accommodation for any part of the application
process, or you encounter technical difficulties, please call 1-800-561-0861
between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. CT, Monday - Friday, for assistance.

UnitedHealth Group is a registered service mark of UnitedHealth Group, Inc. The
UnitedHealth Group name with the dimensional logo, as well as the dimensional
logo alone, are both service marks for the UnitedHealth Group, Inc.

Diversity creates a healthier atmosphere: All qualified applicants will receive
consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, age,
national origin, protected veteran status, disability status, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, marital status, genetic
information, or any other characteristic protected by law.

UnitedHealth Group is a drug-free workplace. Candidates are required to pass a
drug test before beginning employment.

Get Adobe Reader  Get Adobe Flash Player


© 2015 UnitedHealth Group, Todos os direitos reservados .
© 2015 UnitedHealth Group, Todos os direitos reservados .
Acrobat Reader Flash
