Skip to Main Content
UPenn Logo

Careers@Penn

Toggle navigation

  • Home
  • Search Jobs
  • Create Account
  • Log In
  • Help

  • Why Penn
  • Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action
  • Faculty Positions
  • Salary Information
  • Sign up for Email Job Alerts

ADVANCED ANALYTICS STATISTICIAN

Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary
documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening.
To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button.

If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the
Bookmark link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your
records, click on the Print Preview link.

Bookmark this Posting | Print Preview | Apply for this Job

Posting Details

Posting Details

  Reference    40-24634
    Number
  Posted Job   ADVANCED ANALYTICS STATISTICIAN
    Title
 School Name   Perelman School of Medicine
     Org       DM-General Internal Medicine
Posted to the  12/23/2016
     Web
 Posted Job/   029
 Salary Grade
  Employment   Exempt
     Type
    Hours      40.00
Position Type  Full Time
   Position    8:00-5:00
   Schedule
    Months     12
   Position    Contingent Upon Funding
    Length
 Position End
     Date
               The University of Pennsylvania, the largest private employer in
               Philadelphia, is a world-renowned leader in education, research,
               and innovation. This historic, Ivy League school consistently
               ranks among the top 10 universities in the annual U.S. News &
               World Report survey. Penn has 12 highly-regarded schools that
               provide opportunities for undergraduate, graduate and continuing
               education, all influenced by Penn’s distinctive
               interdisciplinary approach to scholarship and learning.

               Penn offers a unique working environment within the city of
               Philadelphia. The University is situated on a beautiful urban
  University   campus, with easy access to a range of educational, cultural,
   Overview    and recreational activities. With its historical significance
               and landmarks, lively cultural offerings, and wide variety of
               atmospheres, Philadelphia is the perfect place to call home for
               work and play.

               The University offers a competitive benefits package that
               includes excellent healthcare and tuition benefits for employees
               and their families, generous retirement benefits, a wide variety
               of professional development opportunities, supportive work and
               family benefits, a wealth of health and wellness programs and
               resources, and much more.

               The Advanced Analytics Statistician will support innovative
               research and clinical improvement initiatives at the PENN
               Medicine Center for Health Care Innovation and the LDI Center
               for Health Incentives and Behavioral Economics.
               The candidate will efficiently analyze wide variety of health
               care data sources including administrative claims, electronic
               medical record data, statewide health registry data, clinical
               trials data, as well as nontraditional data sources such as
               social media or multidimensional data around health. Using large
    Duties     array of statistical and analytic programming tools, the
               candidate will conduct standard and specialized statistical
               analyses such as survival analysis, hierarchical linear or
               non-linear models, missing data imputation, propensity score
               analyses, and bootstrap simulations. The candidate is expected
               to apply tools across the disciplines of conventional
               statistical inferences and technologies from data science such
               as machine learning techniques to achieve deep learning based on
               data mining and dimension reduction.

               The minimum of a Master’s Degree in mathematics, statistics,
               computer science, healthcare management, economics,
               epidemiology, public health, health services research, or data
               science and 5 years of related experience or an equivalent
               combination of education and experience required. Candidate is
               required to have deep knowledge in statistics and advanced
               analytical methods. Applied statistics, expertise with data
               visualization techniques, dimension reduction, and ability to
               work across a wide range of statistical and computer programming
               tools are important to enable innovative research. Advanced
               analytics skills are required to also harness principles from
               Big Data Analytics, Unsupervised Learning (e.g., trajectory
Qualifications modeling) and supervised learning (e.g., decision trees), with
               focus on data mining techniques facilitated by Natural Language
               Processing and other statistical and computational driven
               algorithms. Experience in conducting complex data analyses in
               clinical medicine, public health, epidemiology, health services
               research, or health economics is required. Strong statistical
               programming skills in SAS, Stata, and/or R are required, and
               additional experience in using other data management programming
               languages such as SQL, Python, Java, Perl, Visual Basic, or C++,
               and is strongly preferred. Prior work experience in an academic
               or other scientific research setting in health care is
               preferred. Position contingent upon funding.

               Penn adheres to a policy that prohibits discrimination on the
 Affirmative   basis of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity,
    Action     religion, creed, national or ethnic origin, citizenship status,
  Statement    age, disability, veteran status, or any other legally protected
               class.

   Special     Background check required after a conditional job offer is made.
 Requirements  Consideration of the background check will be tailored to the
               requirements of the job.
  Quick Link   http://jobs.hr.upenn.edu/postings/24831

Posting Supplemental Questions

Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*).

 1. * How did you hear about this employment opportunity?
      □ Jobs@Penn
      □ Contacted by a Penn Recruiter
      □ Referred by a Penn Employee
      □ Referred by a friend or family member
      □ Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (HERC)
      □ Inside Higher Ed
      □ Indeed.com
      □ Other Internet Advertisement
      □ Linkedin
      □ Twitter
      □ Other Social Media Site
      □ Professional Affiliation/Trade Website
      □ Diversity Association/Publication Website
      □ Heard about it at a conference or career fair
      □ Apple One
      □ Recruitment and/or staffing agency
 2. * What is your highest level of education completed?
      □ Less than high school education
      □ High School Diploma or GED
      □ Vocational or Technical School
      □ Associate's Degree or Two Year College
      □ Bachelor's Degree
      □ Master's Degree
      □ PHD/MD/JD or equivalent doctoral degree
 3. * How many years of experience do you have related to this position?
      □ 0 to 1 Year
      □ 1 to 2 Years
      □ 2 to 3 Years
      □ 3 to 5 Years
      □ 5 to 7 Years
      □ 7 to 10 Years
      □ Over 10 Years
 4. * Do you have a Master's Degree in mathematics, statistics, computer
    science, healthcare management, economics, epidemiology, public health,
    health services research, or data science?
      □ yes
      □ no
 5. * Do you have work experience in an academic or other scientific research
    setting in health care?
      □ yes
      □ no
 6. * Do you have extensive knowledge in statistics and advanced analytical
    methods?
      □ yes
      □ no
 7. If you answered yes to the question above, please elaborate on your
    experience.

    (Open Ended Question)

Applicant Documents

Required Documents

 1. Resume

Optional Documents

 1. Cover Letter

3401 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-6228 | (215) 898-7287

                                                       recruitment@hr.upenn.edu

