Large fractl logo 1

All jobs → Freelance Data Scientist

Freelance Data Scientist

Telecommute · Delray Beach, Florida, United States · Creative Strategy

Description

Fractl is a creative marketing agency that fuses data journalism and
information design to explore universal human interests in original and daring
ways.

Our projects showcase illuminating findings through beautiful visualizations
and intelligent storytelling, reaching audiences of millions through a
strategic understanding of digital PR that we’ve honed over the past four
years.

Fractl has gone from strength-to-strength since it was founded in 2012, with
more than 60 full-time team members currently at its head office in Florida,
and many more around the globe.


We’re looking for a Data Scientist who can reveal the most interesting and
surprising findings in data he/she collects, cleans, models and tests. The
ideal candidate will have an excellent grasp of basic statistics, including
statistical tests, distributions, and maximum likelihood estimation. A solid
understanding of statistical significance is vital, as is the ability to
determine if methodologies are sound. Your contributions to Fractl projects
will be crucial in ensuring stories are based on meaningful results that truly
represent trends in the real world.

Your role in a project will typically begin by assessing potential data sources
alongside a data journalist to find one (or several) that has the potential to
reveal a compelling story that relates to the client’s products or services.
You will then collect the data, scraping it if necessary, before analyzing it
through Exploratory Data Analysis and hypothesis testing using such statistical
programs at Excel and Tableau. Your juicy discoveries are then presented to an
information designer and data journalist for them to produce an engaging visual
story and article the general public can enjoy.

You will have the freedom to explore data in whatever way you feel is most
likely to tease out revealing and engaging results and, as a result, your
efforts will be seen by potentially millions of people--not lost behind the
scenes in a corporate environment.

Requirements

Education

We value experience over education, but a degree in statistics or data science
wouldn’t hurt. The most important thing is that your instincts and
investigative methods are well-developed and reliable.

Required Skills and Experience

● Fluency in a statistical programming language, like R or Python, and a
database querying language like SQL. You will sometimes be dealing with huge
data sets.

● Advanced Excel skills, experience with Tableau - easily able to produce all
the basic charts and graphs.

● Knowledge of how to shape, normalize, model and visualize data in response to
a list of questions you and other teams members choose to investigate, using
statistical significance testing where required.

● Excellent communication skills ­ you will need to explain your methods and
results to other team members who don’t have the same knowledge of statistics
as you.

Desired Skills and Experience:

● A strong journalistic instinct to know what questions to ask and what the
answers must look like to deserve being featured in data visualizations.

● Data scraping and an ability to work with APIs and unstructured data.

● Experience with/ability to implement JS libraries geared toward visualizing
information and displaying data (such as with d3.js).

● A curious mind and insatiable intellectual curiosity.

● An affinity for data-driven journalism like FiveThirtyEight and Freakonomics.

Benefits

This position is open to remote workers. Rate will be based on experience.
Based on performance, there is strong opportunity for growth.

Apply for this job

Fractl does not discriminate on the basis of race, sex, color, religion, age,
national origin, marital status, disability, veteran status, genetic
information, sexual orientation, gender identity or any other reason prohibited
by law in provision of employment opportunities and benefits.

Fractl website Powered by Workable
