Data Scientist (Member Centric Analytics)
Pittsburgh, PA
Search Other Jobs Apply Now
Highmark Health
search again

Job Attributes

Job Id

JR-84751

Category

Not Defined

Location

Penn Avenue Place
Pittsburgh, PA
US

Company

Highmark Inc

Type

Full time

Apply Now


Share this on

Share this on:

  • Home
  • Search Jobs
  • Applicant Login

New Search Previous Search

Data Scientist (Member Centric Analytics)
Pittsburgh, PA

Job Description

Company :

Highmark Inc

Job Description : 

General Overview:

The Data Scientist will join the Advanced Analytics department’s Member Centric
Analytics team. The focus of this role will be to continue to evolve and
enhance the analytics and predictive algorithms supporting our Medical/ Care
Management teams.  This will include incorporation of new data sources (e.g.,
Social Determinants of Health, EMR data) and new techniques (e.g., machine
learning).  The Data Scientist is required to synthesize and leverage the large
volume and variety of data available to enhance our understanding of individual
propensities, population segments, decision points, and outcomes.
Responsibilities are within a dedicated Medical/ Care Management team, but will
also be connected to the broader Highmark Data Science community. 

Essential Job Functions:

  • Content matter expert in healthcare datasets and business topics to
    advocate, evangelize and build data-driven solutions that help our business
    improve the delivery and efficiency of healthcare.
  • Partner with Clinical experts (Medical Directors, Care Managers, etc.) to
    develop data data-driven solutions to improve the efficiency and
    effectivenss of our Care Management programs.
  • Create and uncover new and interesting data sources/ elements to inform our
    Clinical analytic solutions (e.g., external data on social determinants,
    integration of clincal data from EMR systems).
  • Provide expertise on mathematical, statistical, and computational concepts
    for presentation and understanding at all levels of the organization in
    order to help drive the adoption of advanced analytics and data science
    across the breadth of our organization.
  • Help describe and interpret insights from advanced analytical solutions to
    ensure impact within the Medical/ Care Management team.
  • Transfer advanced and innovative techniques into stabilized deliverables to
    drive continual business insight.
  • Other duties as assigned or requested.

Minimum Qualifications:

  • Master's Degree - Engineering, Applied Statistics, Data Mining, Machine
    Learning, Physics or other quantitative disciplines
  • 5 - 7 years' of experience delivering data science and analytic insights to
    solve business problems

Preferred Qualifications:

  • Experience with Health care data
  • Experience with SAS and SQL
  • Expertise with BI tools such as Tableau and Cognos
  • Exposure to other analytical platforms (e.g., R, Python)

Knowledge, Skills & Abilities:

  • Ability to translate business needs and requirements into analytical and
    computational requirements
  • Knowledge of healthcare and health insurance sectors. Knowledge of various
    healthcare data sources; claims, clinical EMR, labs, consumer, and
    demographic
  • Deep understanding of statistical and predictive modeling concepts,
    clustering and classification techniques and recommendation and
    opitmization algorithms
  • Demonstrated ability to work on multiple projects with multiple teams
  • Demonstrated ability to deliver high quality insights in a variety of
    timeframes
  • Demonstrated ability to solve busines problems and find patterns and
    insights with structured and unstructured data

Referral Award Payout Level: 2

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Highmark Health and its affiliates prohibit discrimination against qualified
individuals based on their status as protected veterans or individuals with
disabilities, and prohibit discrimination against all individuals based on
their race, color, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation or any
other category protected by applicable federal, state or local law. Highmark
Health and its affiliates take affirmative action to employ and advance in
employment individuals without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, protected veteran status or disability.

EEO is The Law

Equal Opportunity Employer Minorities/Women/Protected Veterans/Disabled/Sexual
Orientation/Gender Identity (http://www1.eeoc.gov/employers/upload/
eeoc_self_print_poster.pdf)

We endeavor to make this site accessible to any and all users. If you would
like to contact us regarding the accessibility of our website or need
assistance completing the application process, please contact number below.

For accommodation requests, please call HR Services at 844-242-HR4U or visit HR
Services Online at HRServices@highmarkhealth.org

Apply Now

Site Map

Home Search Jobs

Follow us

 

Career Opportunities

Not Defined (676 jobs)
Visit www.highmarkhealth.org
© Highmark Health 2017. All Rights Reserved

ADVERTO

