Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Data Scientist

Data Scientist

ID 
    19791

# of Openings 
    1

Job Locations 
    US-OR-Portland

Posted Date 
    11/29/2016

Category 
    Data Analytics, Research & Product Operations

More information about this job:

Job Description:

Job Title: Data Scientist
Location: Portland, OR

Reports To: Statistical Research Management

 

JOB FUNCTION

 

The Data Scientist is part of the Statistical Operations and Data Science team
that provides internal services to building and maintaining the data science
methodologies comprising comScore?s projection system for national television,
local television, OnDemand, and digital viewership in a cross-platform
measurement service. This position is expected to have a particularly
significant role in comScore?s measurement of Linear Television. In this role,
the Data Scientist will work closely with other members of the Statistical
Operations and Data Science team to work with large amounts of tune-level
linear television data to build algorithms, tools, and custom projection
solutions for precise cross-platform measurement using large-scale data sets in
a fast-paced business environment. The Data Scientist will investigate and
diagnose potential internally- and externally-facing issues, and design
technology improvements to the projection system to improve the way that
supports comScore leading cross-platform measurement products. This position
will require working across other functional teams to meet the internal and
external demands of the business.


ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES


?Independently identify appropriate data science techniques and projection
methodologies that will be used to support comScore?s cross-platform
measurement products, and answer technical and business questions.
?Build algorithms, tools, custom solutions, and new technologies from diverse
and large-scale data sets to enhance comScore?s measurement products, or
contribute to new products.
?Maintain existing algorithms, tools, solutions, and methodologies contributing
to comScore?s existing measurement products.
?Build custom solutions to meet internal and client needs for cross-platform
measurement.
?Work closely with other functional teams, including Software Engineering,
Product Management, Data Operations, Client Accounts Managers, and Sales Teams
to develop and maintain the methodologies contributing to comScore?s
cross-platform measurement services.
?Apply critical thinking to analyze process and data anomalies, field client
inquiries, and diagnose problems and data issues. These tasks will include
working with Software Engineers, Product Managers, Account Managers, Sales
Managers, and Data Operations Analysts.
?Summarize and visualize conclusions from large-scale data sets to support the
decision making of internal business stakeholders using SAS, Excel, and other
tools.
?Communicate findings and results into measures of business impact.
?Evaluate and confirm the integrity of large source data sets.
?Be responsible for quality control and documentation of analysis and modeling
to ensure on-time and accurate projection deliverables.
?Manipulate, analyze, and validate large data sets using SAS and SQL analytical
software, and extract quantitative and qualitative findings from large data
sets.
?Creatively solve tactical and strategic problems, bringing new approaches to
management.
?Ownership of routine tasks, ensuring all steps are completed within expected
project deadlines with little supervision.


QUALIFICATIONS


?Requires a BA/BS in Statistics, Mathematics, or related field; Master?s or
Ph.D. degree preferred.
?2-4 years of relevant data science experience; comScore or other media
measurement experience can be included.
?Experience in building data science methodologies and custom data solutions
for quantitative data measurement.
?General familiarity with media industry and practices (theatrical, television,
home entertainment, advertising, cross-platform, etc.); existing background in
media, television, or cross-platform measurement services preferred.
?Experience in data analysis and problem solving with large amounts of data;
strong knowledge of SAS and SQL programming preferred.
?Strong Excel skills.
?Strong oral and written communication skills, including the ability to
communicate findings to stakeholders and document project steps in detail.
?Ability to work individually, as well as partner with small and large teams of
other Data Scientists during all stages of projects, including planning and
execution.
?Ability to independently complete multiple simultaneous project tasks with
little supervision.

 

About comScore: comScore (NASDAQ: SCOR) is the cross-platform measurement
company that precisely measures audiences, brands and consumer behavior
everywhere.

comScore completed its merger with Rentrak Corporation in January 2016, to
create the new model for a dynamic, cross-platform world. Built on precision
and innovation, our unmatched data footprint combines proprietary digital, TV
and movie intelligence with vast demographic details to quantify consumers?
multiscreen behavior at massive scale. This approach helps media companies
monetize their complete audiences and allows marketers to reach these audiences
more effectively. With more than 3,200 clients and global footprint in more
than 75 countries, comScore is delivering the future of measurement. For more
information on comScore, please visit comscore.com.

 

EEO Statement: We are an equal employment opportunity employer. All qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, national origin, sex, disability status, sexual orientation,
gender identity, age, protected veteran status or any other characteristic
protected by law.


*LI-JZ1

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
#Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

