Home | FR | Login | UN.org | Site map | Contact us
 
{1}
##LOC[OK]##
{1}
[{2}                 ]
##LOC[OK]## ##LOC[Cancel]##
{1}
##LOC[OK]## ##LOC[Cancel]##

Roster campaign open for ITECNET field positions (P4, P5, D1, deadline: 19 and
20 January)

success Your email has been successfully sent.

  * [Facebook]
  * [Twitter]
  * [Google]
  * [LinkedIn]
  * [Email]

Job Opening

Posting Title:      STATISTICIAN
Job Code Title:     STATISTICIAN
Department/Office:  DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL AFFAIRS
Duty Station:       NEW YORK
Posting Period:     30 December 2016 - 27 February 2017
Job Opening Number: 16-Statistics-DESA-71225-R-New York (G)
Staffing Exercise   N/A

United Nations Core Values: Integrity, Professionalism, Respect for Diversity
Apply Now

Special Notice

Staff members are subject to the authority of the Secretary-General and to
assignment by him or her. In this context, all staff are expected to move
periodically to new functions in their careers in accordance with established
rules and procedures.

Org. Setting and Reporting

The position is located in the Department of Economic and Social Affairs
(DESA), Statistics Division (SD), Environment and Energy Statistics Branch
(EESB), Industrial and Energy Statistics Section (IESS). The Statistics
Division is committed to the advancement of the global statistical system. The
Division compiles and disseminates global statistical information, develop
standards and norms for statistical activities, and support countries' efforts
to strengthen their national statistical systems. Further information is
available on the following website: http://unstats.un.org. The Statistician
reports to Chief of the Section.

Responsibilities

Within delegated authority, the Statistician will be responsible for the
following duties:

?Organizes, designs, plans and carries out the collection, evaluation,
analysis, compilation and dissemination of energy statistics data by selecting
methods of data collection, selecting and implementing methods for checking
collected data, and selecting and implementing appropriate methods for data
processing for incorporation into databases.
?Participates in the development, implementation and management of statistical
databases for energy statistics.
?Provides training and technical support on data collection programmes, country
practices and other related information.
?Participates in the development or revision of standards on statistical
concepts, definitions and classifications related to energy statistics by
performing methodological research.
?Prepares draft technical documents for international, intergovernmental and
expert group meetings and assists in drafting relevant reports related to
energy statistics.
?Organizes and participates in seminars, working groups and expert meetings as
a technical resource person.
?Guides, trains and supervises general service staff in the area of energy
statistics.
?Performs other duties as assigned.

Competencies

? Professionalism: Knowledge of statistical principles and practices. Proven
conceptual skills in statistics including in-depth technical knowledge of the
conceptual frameworks for energy statistics. Knowledge of the relevant
international recommendations. Ability to conduct independent research and
analysis. Ability to identify issues, formulate options and make conclusions
and recommendations. Shows pride in work and in achievements; demonstrates
professional competence and mastery of subject matter; is conscientious and
efficient in meeting commitments, observing deadlines and achieving results; is
motivated by professional rather than personal concerns; shows persistence when
faced with difficult problems or challenges; remains calm in stressful
situations. Takes responsibility for incorporating gender perspectives and
ensuring the equal participation of women and men in all areas of work.

? Teamwork: Works collaboratively with colleagues to achieve organizational
goals; solicits input by genuinely valuing others? ideas and expertise; is
willing to learn from others; places team agenda before personal agenda;
supports and acts in accordance with final group decision, even when such
decisions may not entirely reflect own position; shares credit for team
accomplishments and accepts joint responsibility for team shortcomings.

? Technological Awareness: Solid computer skills and ability to apply them in
statistical work, including proficiency in word and data processing and
knowledge of relevant software packages. Keeps abreast of available technology;
understands applicability and limitation of technology to the work of the
office; actively seeks to apply technology to appropriate tasks; shows
willingness to learn new technology.

Education

Advanced university degree (Master?s degree or equivalent degree) in
statistics, mathematics, economics or related field is required. A first-level
university degree in combination with two additional years of qualifying work
experience may be accepted in lieu of the advanced university degree.

Work Experience

A minimum of five years of progressively responsible experience in the
collection, compilation, analysis and dissemination of statistical data or
related area is required. Experience in the use of computerized databases is
required. Experience in the area of energy statistics is desirable.

Languages

English and French are the working languages of the United Nations Secretariat.
For this post advertised, fluency in English is required. Knowledge of another
UN official language is an advantage.

Assessment

Evaluation of qualified candidates may include an assessment exercise which may
be followed by competency-based interview.

United Nations Considerations

According to article 101, paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United Nations,
the paramount consideration in the employment of the staff is the necessity of
securing the highest standards of efficiency, competence, and integrity,
including but not limited to, respect for international human rights and
humanitarian law. Candidates may be subject to screening against these
standards, including but not limited to, whether they have committed or are
alleged to have committed criminal offences or violations of international
human rights law and international humanitarian law.

Due regard will be paid to the importance of recruiting the staff on as wide a
geographical basis as possible. The United Nations places no restrictions on
the eligibility of men and women to participate in any capacity and under
conditions of equality in its principal and subsidiary organs. The United
Nations Secretariat is a non-smoking environment.

Applicants are urged to follow carefully all instructions available in the
online recruitment platform, inspira. For more detailed guidance, applicants
may refer to the At-a-Glance on "The Application Process" and the Instructional
Manual for the Applicants, which can be accessed by clicking on ?Manuals?
hyper-link on the upper right side of the inspira account-holder homepage.

The screening and evaluation of applicants will be conducted on the basis of
the information submitted in the application according to the evaluation
criteria of the job opening and the applicable internal legislations of the
United Nations including the Charter of the United Nations, resolutions of the
General Assembly, the Staff Regulations and Rules, administrative issuances and
guidelines. Applicants must provide complete and accurate information
pertaining to their personal profile and qualifications, including but not
limited to, their education, work experience, and language skills, according to
the instructions provided on inspira. Applicants will be disqualified from
consideration if they do not demonstrate in their application that they meet
the evaluation criteria of the job opening and the applicable internal
legislations of the United Nations. Applicants are solely responsible for
providing complete and accurate information at the time of application: no
amendment, addition, deletion, revision or modification shall be made to
applications that have been submitted. Candidates under serious consideration
for selection will be subject to a reference-checking process to verify the
information provided in the application.

Job openings advertised on the Careers Portal will be removed at midnight (New
York time) on the deadline date.

No Fee

THE UNITED NATIONS DOES NOT CHARGE A FEE AT ANY STAGE OF THE RECRUITMENT
PROCESS (APPLICATION, INTERVIEW MEETING, PROCESSING, OR TRAINING). THE UNITED
NATIONS DOES NOT CONCERN ITSELF WITH INFORMATION ON APPLICANTS? BANK ACCOUNTS.

Apply Now
share

  * [Facebook]
  * [Twitter]
  * [Google]
  * [LinkedIn]
  * [Email]

Home | Privacy notice | Site map | Fraud alert | Contact Us
Copyright 2017 United Nations. All rights reserved
