University of Wisconsin–Madison

Jobs at UW

University of Wisconsin–Madison

Job Alerts Applicant Login
Filter

ASSISTANT SCIENTIST - PREDICTIVE COMPUTATIONAL PHENOTYPING

Apply now Job no: 89061-AS
Work type: Staff-Full Time
Department:SMPH/BIOSTAT &MED I/INFORMATIC
Location: Madison
Categories: Computer Science, Information Systems/Technology, Research,
Scientific

Position Vacancy 89061-AS
      ID:
   Employment    Academic Staff-Renewable
     Class:
 Working Title:  Assistant Scientist - Predictive Computational Phenotyping

Official Title:  ASSISTANT SCIENTIST(E10LN)

     Hiring      A531250-MEDICAL SCHOOL/BIOSTAT &MED I/INFORMATIC
  Department:
      FTE:       100%

  Anticipated    FEBRUARY 01, 2017
  Begin Date:
     Term:       This is a renewable appointment.

   Advertised    Minimum $90,000 ANNUAL (12 months)
    Salary:      Depending on Qualifications

Degree and area  Ph.D. in computer science, statistics, data science, or a
       of        related discipline. Expertise in biomedical informatics or a
specialization:  related field.

                 Two to three years of post-graduate work and/or professional
                 experience in developing and applying machine-learning methods
                 to biomedical problems. Significant knowledge of machine
                 learning and probabilistic modeling. Significant experience in
                 devising computational approaches and implementing them in
                 robust software. Significant practical experience in the
                 analysis of clinical and high-throughput biological data.
                 Relevant areas of application expertise include biological
                 network inference, experiment selection, biological sequence
 Minimum number  analysis, and predictive modeling from clinical data.
  of years and
type of relevant The successful candidate will have demonstrated:
work experience: --the ability to work independently as well as collaboratively
                 and to interact positively with a diverse group of researchers
                 and their research;
                 --attention to detail and ability to attain project milestones
                 on time, to handle multiple projects and assignments, and to
                 resolve problems required;
                 --excellent oral and written communication skills;
                 --ability to stay current on new biological, biomedical, and
                 biomedical informatics methodologies.

   License or     
  Certificate:
                 The incumbent will be part of a team working with data
                 scientists, clinicians and biomedical scientists to develop
    Position     methods and software for inferring predictive models from
    Summary:     heterogeneous data sources in longitudinal studies of human
                 health.

   Additional     
  Information:
                 Molly Mitchell
                 molly.mitchell@wisc.edu
                 608-265-0684
    Contact:     Relay Access (WTRS): 7-1-1 (out-of-state: TTY: 800.947.3529,
                 STS: 800.833.7637) and above Phone number (See RELAY_SERVICE
                 for further information. )

Instructions to  Please upload a resume and cover letter and input a list of
  Applicants:    references in the UW-Madison's TREMS job application system

Additional Link: Full Position Details
                 NOTE: A Period of Evaluation will be Required
                 The University of Wisconsin is an Equal Opportunity and
                 Affirmative Action Employer.

                 The Annual Security and Fire Safety Report contains current
                 campus safety and disciplinary policies, crime statistics for
                 the previous 3 calendar years, and on-campus student housing
                 fire safety policies and fire statistics for the previous 3
                 calendar years. UW-Madison will provide a paper copy upon
                 request; please contact the University of Wisconsin Police
                 Department

 

Applications Open: 15 Dec 2016 Central Standard Time
Applications Close: 15 Jan 2017 Central Standard Time

Back to search results Apply now Refer a friend

Share this: | More
Send me jobs like these

We will email you new jobs that match this search.

Email address [                    ]

Ok, we will send you jobs like this.

The email address was invalid, please check for errors.

You must agree to the privacy statement

Subscribe
[Subscribe] [*]

Search results

           Position             Department   Location     Opened      Closes
ASSISTANT SCIENTIST -          SMPH/BIOSTAT
PREDICTIVE COMPUTATIONAL       &MED I/      Madison     15 Dec 2016 15 Jan 2017
PHENOTYPING                    INFORMATIC
Are you a PhD in computer or data science, statistics, or a related discipline?
Are you excited by applying machine-learning methods and probabilistic modeling
to biomedical data? Are you a collaborative-minded informatician and developer
who wants to move research from the bench to the bedside? Please take a look at
this new opportunity in the Center for Predictive and Computational Phenotyping
in the UW-Madison's Department of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics.

Expression of interest

Loading...

Current opportunities

           Position             Department   Location     Opened      Closes
ASSISTANT SCIENTIST -          SMPH/BIOSTAT                         15 Jan 2017
PREDICTIVE COMPUTATIONAL       &MED I/      Madison     15 Dec 2016 11:55 PM
PHENOTYPING                    INFORMATIC
Are you a PhD in computer or data science, statistics, or a related discipline?
Are you excited by applying machine-learning methods and probabilistic modeling
to biomedical data? Are you a collaborative-minded informatician and developer
who wants to move research from the bench to the bedside? Please take a look at
this new opportunity in the Center for Predictive and Computational Phenotyping
in the UW-Madison's Department of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics.

Powered by PageUp

[                    ]

Work type

  • [ ]Staff-Full Time 1

Locations

  • [ ]Madison 1

Categories

  • [ ]Computer Science 1
  • [ ]Information Systems/Technology 1
  • [ ]Research, Scientific 1

[Filter Results]

More Jobs at UW

Custodial Positions
Postdoc Training
Student Job Center
Internal Vacancies
Referral Priority Candidates
Blue Collar Multi-Shift Vacancies

Help

Applicant Tutorial
Disability Accommodations

The University of Wisconsin is an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action
Employer.

E-Verify
 

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  

    Quick Links

  • Frequently Asked Questions
  • About UW
  • Visit Campus
  • Employee Benefits
  • Working at UW

 
Contact
Español Hmoob བོད་ཡིག 中文

Talent Recruitment and Engagement
Office of Human Resources
University of Wisconsin–Madison
21 N. Park Street, Suite 5101
Madison, WI 53715-1218

© 2016 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System • Privacy
Statement

UW Crest Logo <
