Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Manager/Senior Manager ? Data Scientist ? Machine Learning Expert

Manager/Senior Manager ? Data Scientist ? Machine Learning Expert

ID 
    2016-3554

Job Location 
    US-DE-Wilmington

Type 
    Regular Full-Time

Posted on 
    ..

Last date to apply 
    ..

Job Code 
    DJOB

More information about this job:

Overview:

Data Scientist ? Machine Learning Expert

 

EXL (NASDAQ:EXLS) is a leading operations management and analytics company that
helps businesses enhance growth and profitability in the face of relentless
competition and continuous disruption. Using our proprietary, award-winning
Business EXLerator Framework?, which integrates analytics, automation,
benchmarking, BPO, consulting, industry best practices and technology
platforms, we look deeper to help companies improve global operations, enhance
data-driven insights, increase customer satisfaction, and manage risk and
compliance. EXL serves the insurance, healthcare, banking and financial
services, utilities, travel, transportation and logistics industries.
Headquartered in New York, New York, EXL has more than 24,000 professionals in
locations throughout the United States, Europe, Asia (primarily India and
Philippines), Latin America, Australia and South Africa.

 

EXL Analytics provides data-driven, action-oriented solutions to business
problems through statistical data mining, cutting edge analytics techniques and
a consultative approach. Leveraging proprietary methodology and best-of-breed
technology, EXL Analytics takes an industry-specific approach to transform our
clients? decision making and embed analytics more deeply into their business
processes. Our global footprint of nearly 2,000 data scientists and analysts
assist client organizations with complex risk minimization methods, advanced
marketing, pricing and CRM strategies, internal cost analysis, and cost and
resource optimization within the organization.  EXL Analytics serves the
insurance, healthcare, banking, capital markets, utilities, retail and
e-commerce, travel, transportation and logistics industries.

 

Please visit www.exlservice.com for more information about EXL Analytics.

Responsibilities:

  * The position is located at client?s site in US.
  * Deliver high intensity projects in individual capacity

  * Work on Machine Learning related projects
  * Also, train the client team members on machine learning and advanced
    analytical techniques

Qualifications:

  * Someone who has built as well as implemented machine learning models.
      + For example, while, it might take just a couple of lines of code to
        call a Logistic regression in R/Python if we call a pre written
        package. But, we are looking for someone who has written/customized
        that package on their own.
  * Qualification: PhD.
  * Years of professional experience can be limited: > 1 year.
  * Willing to work out of Wilmington.
  * Experience in R / Python / Spark / Hive

What we offer:

  * EXL Analytics offers an exciting, fast paced and innovative environment,
    which brings together a group of sharp and entrepreneurial professionals
    who are eager to influence business decisions. From your very first day,
    you get an opportunity to work closely with highly experienced, world class
    analytics consultants.
  * You can expect to learn many aspects of businesses that our clients engage
    in. You will also learn effective teamwork and time-management skills - key
    aspects for personal and professional growth
  * Analytics requires different skill sets at different levels within the
    organization. At EXL Analytics, we invest heavily in training you in all
    aspects of analytics as well as in leading analytical tools and techniques.
  * We provide guidance/ coaching to every employee through our mentoring
    program wherein every junior level employee is assigned a senior level
    professional as advisors.
  * Sky is the limit for our team members. The unique experiences gathered at
    EXL Analytics sets the stage for further growth and development in our
    company and beyond. 

"EOE/Minorities/Females/Vets/Disabilities"

EEO/Minorities/Females/Vets/Disabilities

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
#Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

