Refresh (0 sec) /careers/jobs/a0I1200000JXc5UEAT/?_fb_noscript=1
Verwijderen
We gebruiken cookies om inhoud en advertenties relevanter te maken en je een
veiligere ervaring te bieden. Als je op de website klikt of op de website
navigeert, ga je ermee akkoord dat we op en buiten Facebook informatie
verzamelen via cookies. Meer informatie, zoals over hoe je je instellingen kunt
aanpassen, vind je hier: cookiebeleid.

Facebook

E-mail of telefoon     Wachtwoord
[                    ] [                    ] Aanmelden
                       Account vergeten?
Registreren
*
 
Work at Facebook
 
Teams
 
Locations
 
University Students
 
Benefits
 
Facebook Life
 
Our Community

Software Engineering

[                    ]
Menlo Park
Software Engineer, Machine Learning, Building 8

(Menlo Park, CA)
Facebook's mission is to give people the power to share, and make the world
more open and connected. Through our growing family of apps and services, we're
building a different kind of company that helps billions of people around the
world connect and share what matters most to them. Whether we're creating new
products or helping a small business expand its reach, people at Facebook are
builders at heart. Our global teams are constantly iterating, solving problems,
and working together to make the world more open and accessible. Connecting the
world takes every one of us?and we're just getting started.
Building 8 brings together world-class experts to develop and ship
groundbreaking products at the intersection of hardware, software, and content.
We have a clear mandate to ship products at scale. In particular, seemingly
impossible products that define new categories and that advance Facebook's
mission of connecting the world. The B8 team will apply DARPA-style
breakthrough development at the intersection of ambitious science and product
development. It will operate on aggressive, fixed timelines, with extensive use
of partnerships in universities, small and large businesses. The Product Launch
Team has the responsibility for taking breakthroughs and delivering them to
market at scale. We are looking for an Engineering Lead for developing product
software that leverages innovative hardware and cloud services. The ideal
candidate will have strong full-stack experience developing rich and intuitive
consumer-facing products. This is a full time position based in our Menlo Park
office.

Responsibilities

  * Apply expert software development skills to a wide range of ML-related
    coding projects
  * Adapt machine learning techniques from domains such as Vision and Speech to
    build intelligent user experiences
  * Develop optimized software to run on variety of platforms and environments
    including mobile, tablet and laptops.
  * Work with product managers to define use cases, and develop methodology and
    benchmarks to evaluate different approaches

Minimum Qualifications

  * M.S. or Ph.D in Computer Science and 3+ years of relevant work experience
  * 3+ years of experience in applying machine learning techniques to computer
    vision and speech recognition domains.
  * Knowledge developing and debugging in C/C++ and Java
  * Experience with scripting languages such as Perl, and Python

Apply
Facebook is proud to be an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action employer.
We do not discriminate based upon race, religion, color, national origin, sex
(including pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions), sexual
orientation, gender, gender identity, gender expression, transgender status,
sexual stereotypes, age, status as a protected veteran, status as an individual
with a disability, or other applicable legally protected characteristics.
If you need assistance or an accommodation due to a disability, you may contact
us at accommodations-ext@fb.com or you may call us at 1+650-308-7837.
Apply

Please limit to 3 applications.

Other positions in Software Engineering

  * Build and Release Engineer, Building8
    (Menlo Park)
  * Data Scientist
    (Tel Aviv)
  * Director, Software Engineering
    (London)
  * Manager, Software Engineering
    (London)
  * Mobile Software Developer (WhatsApp)
    (Mountain View)
  * Mobile Software Developer (WhatsApp)
    (Mountain View)
  * Software Engineer, Mobile, Android UI
    (Menlo Park)
  * Software Engineer, Wit.ai
    (Menlo Park)
  * Software Engineer, iOS
    (New York)
  * System Software Lead
    (Menlo Park)

Back to all jobs
Facebook ? 2017Nederlands
Over ons
BedrijfsgegevensOnze Facebook-paginaRedactieVacatures
Instructies
HelpcentrumAlgemene informatie over privacyEen pagina makenMaak een advertentie
Ons beleid
gegevensbeleidVoorwaarden en beleidCookies
Meer informatiebronnen
Veiligheidscentrum voor familiesFacebook for BusinessFacebook voor
ontwikkelaars
