                                    • Home |
                                  • About Us |
                            • Products & Solutions |
                                • Technologies |
                             • Support & Services |
                               • Media & Events |
                                    • Contact

Current Openings                                          Job Detail
Search Jobs
Job Search Agent                                                                                                               Login to My Account
Benefits
Corporate Culture                                         Job Title: Machine Learning Scientist - Imaging                                                          
Careers Home
Quick Job Search                                          Location: Edgewood, MD                              Posted: 01-06-2017
Keyword
[                    ]                                    Category: Research & Development                    Experience: 6-9 years
Job Category
[All Categories                 ]                         Status: Full-Time
Location
[All Locations                                          ] Apply Online »

[btn_arrow]                                               Position Description                                                                                     


                                                          The Machine Learning Scientist - Imaging will work with a multi-disciplinary
                                                          professional group to research, develop, and implement machine learning
                                                          techniques on security imaging system platforms. Key duties of this position
                                                          will include collection of imaging data, coding and adaptation of machine
                                                          learning approaches, technical interchanges with internal and customer R&D
                                                          personnel, and performance of funded research efforts in a laboratory
                                                          environment. The candidate will need to effectively communicate with internal
                                                          colleagues from a number of international Smiths Detection sites and various
                                                          technical and non-technical representatives to accomplish short-term and
                                                          long-term objectives. Support of off-site lab evaluations of technologies and
                                                          products will require occasional overnight travel.

                                                          Specific Accountabilities:

                                                          1. Manage the development of machine learning techniques (CNN, Deep Learning,
                                                          decision logic) for various imaging-based detection systems in software
                                                          packages and programming languages such as Matlab, GPU code (e.g. Cuda), C/C++,
                                                          Java
                                                          2. Serve at Subject Matter Expert (SME) for technical knowledge of machine
                                                          learning techniques and image processing programs or applications as directed,
                                                          representing Smiths Detection and providing feedback to internal teams
                                                          3. Provide engineering support of key testing activities, including support of
                                                          laboratory and field testing activities
                                                          4. Create R&D funding proposals, information packages, and presentations in
                                                          support of external funded R&D efforts
                                                          5. Interact with external technical personnel, industry groups, testing
                                                          standards groups, selected customers, and internal management to provide
                                                          feedback into the product development and design efforts
                                                          6. Collect sample images, library data, and technical information to support
                                                          algorithm development projects
                                                          7. Lead U.S.-based testing and development of detection systems and software
                                                          including executing test plans and experiments in a laboratory setting
                                                          8. Must comply with and ensure department compliance with Company health,
                                                          safety and environmental policies.
                                                          9. Must comply with all applicable U.S. export and security regulations.
                                                          10. Other duties may be assigned




                                                          Requirements


                                                          To perform this job successfully, an individual must be able to perform each
                                                          essential duty satisfactorily. The requirements listed below are representative
                                                          of the knowledge, skill, and/or ability required. Reasonable accommodations may
                                                          be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential
                                                          functions.

                                                          POSITION REQUIREMENTS:

                                                          Education/Training: Advanced Degree or Equivalent Experience in an appropriate
                                                          technical field (Engineering, Physics, Mathematics, Medical Imaging, or
                                                          Computer Science)

                                                          Experience: Five or more years experience in developing computer algorithms,
                                                          mathematics, physics, or related discipline. Experience with security imaging
                                                          or detection products desired. Experience in related field (e.g. medical
                                                          imaging) will be considered.
                                                          Experience in the fields of machine learning, image processing, neural networks
                                                          preferred.

                                                          Knowledge/Skills: Experience with Linux/Unix OS, Windows platforms
                                                          Programming Languages: Matlab, Mathematica, GPU coding (e.g. Cuda), C/C++, Java
                                                          Image processing/algorithm expertise and experience
                                                          Proficiency in typical office software such as MSOffice and Project

                                                          Security: The candidate must possess or be able to successfully obtain a US
                                                          Security Clearance at the SECRET level

                                                          PHYSICAL/MENTAL REQUIREMENTS:

                                                          • Ability to solve complex practical problems
                                                          • Ability to interpret a variety of instructions furnished in written, oral,
                                                          diagram, or schedule form
                                                          • Ability to work effectively under pressure to meet deadlines
                                                          • Ability to represent the company in a range of venues, including technical
                                                          conferences, national laboratories, and test venues
                                                          • Ability to compose and edit high-quality technical documentation,
                                                          correspondence, and literature
                                                          • Ability to elicit and manage contributions from various technical colleagues
                                                          at different sites and locations including overseas travel when necessary
                                                          • Ability to work independently with a minimal amount of supervision including
                                                          strategic decision making to ensure success

                                                          *Must be eligible for a US Security Clearance
                                                          Smiths Detection is an Equal Opportunity Employer




                                                                                                                                Apply
                                                          Back                                                                  Online »


   © Copyright 2017 Smiths Detection. A Part of Smiths Group plc. All Rights
                                   Reserved.
                               Imprint | Sitemap

