  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • [glassdoor2]
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • [glassdoor2]
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • [glassdoor2]
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • [glassdoor2]
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • [glassdoor2]
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  • [glassdoor2]

[]

 

  • Home
  • |
  • Digital People
  • |
  • Hunter Hamilton
  • |
  • Pro Staff
  • |
  • Technical ProSource
  • |
  • Ware Technology Services

Got mad skills? Connect with Digital People for Creative, Interactive and
Marketing placements.
[article]

 

No need to get creative when it comes to finding your next job. Digital People
is your secret weapon! Check out this list of freelance, contract-to-hire, and
full-time career opportunities.

Don’t see something that matches your skills and experience? Connect with your
local office and we’ll help you find the right fit.


  • Job Details
  • Additional Details

Job Title:

Data Scientist - Houston, TX

Job Description:

Are you passionate about data?  Do you love to wrap your head around data and
deliver the story behind the numbers?  Do you have the ability to build that
story in Power Point or whatever it takes to win over your particular internal
audience -- from Managers to C-Levels?

We have a great company seeking a Data Scientist.  The role is located onsite
at their Houston offices in Central Houston area.

You will be terrific and quite advanced with Excel -- including Macros and
Pivot Tables.  You will understand various data tools such as SQL, SAS, R or
Python to help make recommendations for the company (on which tool to use) as
well as be quite familiar with SQL or at least willing to learn it.

You need 3+ years of experience working in a data driven environment where you
used the data to help drive business.  You will be highly collaborative working
with various internal stakeholders, external teams and account leadership to
track and report on digital campaigns and performance of those campaigns.  You
will have an understanding of database marketing and direct marketing.

You will create analytic deliverables for various audiences as noted above.

To be a success you'll have 3+ years of experience using Excel.  An
undergraduate degree in a quantitative field is a plus!  You will assist in
design and execution of various A/B testing and multi-variate testing.

3 to 5 years of experience in marketing with a focus on direct and database
marketing.  And, experience with machine learning techniques and advanced
analytics.

This is a great company that prides themselves on integrity.  If you're the
kind of person that does the right thing all the time when no one is looking,
you'll love the culture of this company.

Salary is in range of $100k to $110k depending on experience to date and if you
check off all the boxes / skills required above.  There is no bonus program.
 You MUST work onsite.  

Please apply.  We hope to hear from you!

About Atterro

EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Atterro supports affirmative action and equal employment opportunity. Atterro
will provide equal employment in employment practices to all associates and
applicants for employment. Employment decisions shall be made without regard to
any protected characteristic such as, but not limited to, race, color,
religion, gender, age, disability, national origin, ancestry, gender identity,
sexual orientation, marital status, status in regard to public assistance,
disabled veterans, recently separated veterans, Armed Forces service medal
veterans and other protected veterans, genetic information and other legally
protected classes. Furthermore, Atterro is an E-Verify employer. Information
provided on this application will not be used for any discriminatory purposes.
Atterro complies with all applicable federal, state and local
non-discrimination laws and regulations. Atterro will provide reasonable
accommodations in the application or interviewing process. If you need a
reasonable accommodation in the application or interviewing process, please
contact us.

Click Here for EEO is the Law Federal Guidelines.

Job ID:
263762

Dept ID:
10688

Location:
Houston, TX 77055
United States of America

Industry
Sales & Marketing / Marketing

Job Type:
Direct Hire Position


Latitude: 29.7868

Longitude: -95.4576

Folder Group ID:54

Posted:12/5/2016

Domain:atterro

Apply for this Position

Job Title: Data Scientist

Location: Houston, TX 77055

Job Type: Direct Hire Position

Reference ID: 263762

Posted Date: 12/5/2016

First Name:* [                    ]
Last Name:* [                    ]
Email Address:* [                    ]
How did you hear about this position?* [Please Select One      ]
Are you 18 years of age or older?* [Please Select One]

Thank you for your interest in Advantage Resourcing. You have responded that
you are not 18 years of age or older. It is Advantage Resourcings policy to
hire individuals who are 18 years of age or older. We invite you to reapply
when you meet this requirement. If you have questions or concerns about this
policy please email recruiting@advantageresourcing.com

Are you currently authorized to work in the US for any employer?* 
[Please Select One]

Thank you for your interest in Advantage Resourcing. You have responded that
you are not authorized to work in the US.

Advantage Resourcing adheres to Department of Homeland Security regulations
regarding employment of individuals authorized to work in the US. Should you
require sponsorship or have questions about these regulations, please contact
recruiting@advantageresourcing.com


Please Choose One:
Valid Resume Formats: (.doc .docx .pdf .rtf .txt only)
Upload Resume * 
[                                                                           ]

 

No Resume?

Please enter the following fields in the absence of a Resume

Address:* [                    ]
City:* [                    ]
State:* [Please Select One   ]
Zipcode:* [                    ]
Phone Number:* [                    ]
Please summarize your qualifications in 500 words or less:* 
[                    ]

Invitation to Self-Identify

Advantage Resourcing is committed to equality of opportunity for all staff and
job applicants. We acknowledge the unique contribution that all individuals can
make and we aim to create a working environment in which all individuals are
able to make use of their skills, free from discrimination or harassment, and
in which all decisions are based on merit. This form is intended to help us
maintain equal opportunities best practice and identify barriers to workforce
equality and diversity.

The information on this form will be used for monitoring purposes only and will
not be used in any decision affecting you. The information you provide will
remain anonymous and will be stored separate to any job application. You are
not obliged to answer any of these questions but the more information you
supply, the more effective our monitoring will be. All information supplied
will be treated anonymously.


Gender * [Please Select One       ]
Ethnicity * [Please Select One                  ]
Veteran Status * [Please Select One                    ]

Voluntary Self-Identification of Disability
Form CC-305 - OMB Control Number 1250-0005
Expires 1/31/2017

Why are you being asked to complete this form?

Because we do business with the government, we must reach out to, hire, and
provide equal opportunity to qualified people with disabilities. To help us
measure how well we are doing, we are asking you to tell us if you have a
disability or if you ever had a disability. Completing this form is voluntary,
but we hope that you will choose to fill it out. If you are applying for a job,
any answer you give will be kept private and will not be used against you in
any way.

If you already work for us, your answer will not be used against you in any
way. Because a person may become disabled at any time, we are required to ask
all of our employees to update their information every five years. You may
voluntarily self-identify as having a disability on this form without fear of
any punishment because you did not identify as having a disability earlier.

How do I know if I have a disability?

You are considered to have a disability if you have a physical or mental
impairment or medical condition that substantially limits a major life
activity, or if you have a history or record of such an impairment or medical
condition.

Disabilities include, but are not limited to:

Blindness , Autism , Bipolar disorder , Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) ,
Deafness , Cerebral palsy , Major depression , Obsessive compulsive disorder ,
Cancer , HIV/AIDS , Multiple sclerosis (MS) , Impairments requiring the use of
a wheelchair , Diabetes , Epilepsy , Schizophrenia , Muscular dystrophy ,
Missing limbs or partially missing limbs , Intellectual disability (previously
called mental retardation)

Reasonable Accommodation Notice

Federal law requires employers to provide reasonable accommodation to qualified
individuals with disabilities. Please tell us if you require a reasonable
accommodation to apply for a job or to perform your job. Examples of reasonable
accommodation include making a change to the application process or work
procedures, providing documents in an alternate format, using a sign language
interpreter, or using specialized equipment.

Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. For more information
about this form or the equal employment obligations of Federal contractors,
visit the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Federal Contract Compliance
Programs (OFCCP) website at www.dol.gov/ofccp

PUBLIC BURDEN STATEMENT: According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 no
persons are required to respond to a collection of information unless such
collection displays a valid OMB control number. This survey should take about 5
minutes to complete.

Please Select One * [Please Select One                                        ]
Submit Application
×

Conditions of Employment

Please read carefully before submitting/digitally signing.

I understand that nothing in this application for employment is intended or
should be construed as an offer, agreement, or contract of employment. I
understand that any offer of employment that may be made to me is conditioned
upon (1) the signing of Advantage Resourcing's EMPLOYEE AGREEMENT; (2)
completion of reference checks and an investigation of my background, including
a security investigation, and my completion of all necessary authorization
forms to allow such checks and investigations to be conducted; and (3) my
ability to provide, within 72 hours of the commencement of any such employment,
acceptable documentation of my eligibility to work in the United States.

In the event that Advantage Resourcing employs me, I will comply with all rules
and regulations as set forth in Advantage Resourcings employee guidelines and
other communications to employees, as they may be changed from time to time
with or without notice.

I authorize Advantage Resourcing or its agents to investigate my references and
communicate with my former employers concerning my employment unless
specifically stated otherwise in this application. I authorize all individuals,
schools, and employers named, and all financial institutions, law enforcement
agencies, and all persons except as specifically limited on this application to
provide information requested about me, and I promise I will not bring any
legal claims or actions against my current or former employers due to their
responses to any job reference request.

I understand that Advantage Resourcing is an at-will employer and that I have
the right to terminate my employment at any time, and that Advantage Resourcing
also may terminate my employment at any time for any reason with or without
cause or advance notice.

I represent and warrant to Advantage Resourcing that I am not subject to a
prior employment, non-competition, confidentiality, or other agreement which
would restrict me in my ability to provide services to or for Advantage
Resourcing, and that if I am subject to a confidentiality agreement, I will not
use any restricted information covered by such agreement in the course of
providing services to or for Advantage Resourcing. I understand and agree that
as a condition of employment and to the extent permitted by federal, state, and
local law, I may be required to sign confidentiality, non-competition, and/or
non-solicitation agreements and/or a conflict of interest statement.

I hereby authorize Advantage Resourcing to report, to the extent allowable by
law, any information to any prospective employer, governmental agency, or any
other person or entity having a legitimate business need concerning
transactions or experiences between myself and Advantage Resourcing arising out
of my employment.

I certify that all the statements made by me in this application or in any
other information provided by me to Advantage Resourcing during the application
and hiring process are true and complete, and I understand that any
falsification, misrepresentation, or material omission may result in denial or
dismissal from employment.

FOR MD APPLICANTS: UNDER MARYLAND LAW, AN EMPLOYER MAY NOT REQUIRE OR DEMAND,
AS A CONDITION OF EMPLOYMENT, PROSPECTIVE EMPLOYMENT, OR CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT,
THAT AN INDIVIDUAL SUBMIT TO OR TAKE A LIE DETECTOR OR SIMILAR TEST. AN
EMPLOYER WHO VIOLATES THIS LAW IS GUILTY OF A MISDEMEANOR AND SUBJECT TO A FINE
NOT EXCEEDING $100. FOR MA APPLICANTS: IT IS UNLAWFUL IN MASSACHUSETTS TO
REQUIRE OR ADMINISTER A LIE DETECTOR TEST AS A CONDITION OF EMPLOYMENT OR
CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT. AN EMPLOYER WHO VIOLATES THIS LAW SHALL BE SUBJECT TO
CRIMINAL PENALTIES AND CIVIL LIABILITY. ADVANTAGE RESOURCING DOES NOT USE LIE
DETECTOR TESTS AS PART OF THE APPLICATION PROCESS. FOR MT APPLICANTS: THE
EMPLOYMENT RELATIONSHIP IS GOVERNED BY THE WRONGFUL DISCHARGE FROM EMPLOYMENT
ACT. MONT. CODE ANN. § 39-2-901. FOR RI APPLICANTS: IF YOU PROVIDE FALSE
INFORMATION ABOUT YOUR ABILITY TO PERFORM THE ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS OF THE JOB,
WITH OR WITHOUT ACCOMMODATIONS, YOU MAY BE BARRED FROM FILING A CLAIM UNDER THE
PROVISIONS OF THE WORKERS COMPENSATION ACT OF THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND.

 

Acknowledged as read

Atterro

© 2016 Atterro, Inc.
Digital People, Hunter Hamilton, Pro Staff, Technical ProSource and Ware
Technology Services are all divisions of the Atterro Human Capital Group.

 

  • Home
  • Digital People
  • Hunter Hamilton
  • Pro Staff
  • Technical ProSource
  • Ware Technology Services

 

  • Fraud Hotline
  • Privacy Policy
  • Copyright
  • Proprietary Rights

 

 

