Please Enable Cookies to Continue
Please enable cookies in your browser to experience all the personalized
features of this site, including the ability to apply for a job.
Returning Candidate?
Log back in!

Mathematician / Statistician

Mathematician / Statistician

ID 
    2016-1220

# of Openings 
    ..

Job Locations 
    US-VA-Arlington
    US-DC-Washington

Posted Date 
    12/22/2016

Category 
    Science/Research

More information about this job:

Overview:

About Us:

 

Bennett Aerospace, Inc. is located in the Research Triangle Park area of North
Carolina.  Established in 2008, we are a women owned, veteran owned, certified
8(a) small business that provides scientific, engineering, and technical
advisory services to our customers. Primarily focused on Federal Government
clients in general, and the Department of Defense in particular, Bennett
Aerospace provides expert guidance and advice on the full spectrum of R&D and
its applications in engineering, science, medicine, and IT, as well as
providing strategic programmatic support in order to meet customer goals and
objectives.  Bennett Aerospace is a rapidly growing business focused on hiring
and retaining the best people.

 

Bennett Aerospace, Inc. has an *immediate* opening for a highly motivated
Mathematician / Statistician in support of  a Federal Law Enforcement client
located in Arlington, VA and the D.C. Metropolitan Area.  The successful
candidate will support all professional and technical services to the law
enforcement unit.  In addition, the successful candidate will report directly
and responsively to the Bennett Aerospace Program Manager on all immediate
project work.

 

Job Description:

 

A qualified Mathematician / Statistician will work with minimal direction and
will  develop or apply mathematical or statistical theory, computational
techniques, algorithms, and the latest computer technology to provide usable
information to solve economic, scientific, engineering, and physics problems.

To learn more about us, please visit us at:  www.bennettaerospace.com

Responsibilities:

Duties may include providing administrative support as follows:

  * Use statistical theories and techniques, such as mathematical modeling and
    computational methods to formulate and solve practical problems in business
    and government, and in the physical, life, and social sciences;
  * Use computers to analyze relationships among the variables;
  * Solve complex problems by developing models with alternative solutions;
  * Performs other duties as assigned.

Qualifications:

 

Job Requirements:

 

Education and Experience:

  * Minimum of Bachelor degree in Mathematics or Statistics
  * Must have a minimum of 3 years of experience as Mathematician /
    Statistician
  * Must be proficient in the Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
    Outlook)
  * General knowledge of Information Technology systems and Communication tools

Abilities and Skills:

  * Strong written and oral communication skills, organizational skills, and
    attention to detail.
  * Self-motivated with minimal oversight.
  * Applicants selected will be subject to a Government background
    investigation and must meet eligibility and suitability requirements.

 

Please no phone calls after submission. We will let candidates know via
automated reply that we have received their applications and will contact them
if there is a good fit after the closing date for this job.

 

 

We are an Equal Opportunity Employer

Options:

 
Apply for this job onlineApply
Share
 
Refer this job to a friendRefer
Share on your newsfeed
_Go back to the welcome page
Application FAQs 

Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com

