Skip to main content
     Careers > Search Jobs > View Job
                                                                        SIGN ON
Capital Markets Quantitative Risk Analyst


                                                                   [APPLY NOW] 

Job ID:  16004227                                       Company Name:  EverBank

Description:

EverBank is more than just a bank; it’s the evolution of an idea.  Traditional
financial institutions had become wasteful, inflexible and stuck in the past. 
We thrive because we adapt, transform and push forward despite the
ever-changing financial environment.  From our headquarters in Jacksonville,
FL, we continue to gauge our success on that of our clients' while seeking new
opportunities to help them reach and surpass their goals.

This position focuses on quantitative analysis as relates to EverBank’s lending
activity, planning and overall balance sheet risk management.  This position
also supports strategic initiatives of various teams within Capital Markets. 

ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS

  ● Lead risk management initiatives by developing statistical analysis to
    measure and model behavior of complex assets and liabilities.
  ● Take ownership of model development of one or more elements on the balance
    sheet
      □ Residential Loans, GNMA Pool Buyouts, Commercial Loans & Leases,
        Servicing, Deposit Models.
      □ Balance sheet gap & duration calculation.
  ● Supports the Asset Liability Management (ALM) team with cash flow and
    valuation under various scenarios.
  ● Measure the dynamics of balance sheet behavior to changing macro-economic
    conditions.
  ● Leverage macro-economic fundamentals to explain behavior under changing
    economic conditions for the purpose of scenario analysis and stress
    testing.
  ● Document model inputs/outputs for the purpose of audit and review.
  ● Develop streamlined model performance and tracking reports.
  ● Liaison with management and financial risk analysts to deploy models within
    the construct of overall balance sheet risk management framework.
  ● Analyze hedge activity, interest rate risk inherent in financial
    instruments managed at the bank, develop risk metrics to accurately measure
    and assist in engineering hedge programs.
  ● Leverage third party models where necessary to measure asset/liability
    behavior.
  ● Conduct strategic research and analysis for executive management by
    request.
  ● Conduct ad hoc research and reports for the Valuation & Analytics teams.
  ● Develop strategies to maintain data integrity and business workflow
    efficiency within Capital Markets and other departments. Provide
    recommendations for continuous improvement of the department’s reports,
    processes, policies and procedures. 

KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES REQUIREMENTS

  • Must have the ability to interpret technical-level data with a
    functional-level understanding of risk analytics.
  • Must have strong problem-solving skills, including the ability to formulate
    solutions to non-routine problems.
  • Knowledge of housing and economic research techniques.
  • Advanced spreadsheet management skills required.
      □ Excel VBA preferred.
  • Knowledge of one or more statistical softwares (SAS, Matlab, etc).
  • Knowledge of statistics and advanced mathematics.
  • Must be detail-oriented, self-motivated and capable of working
    independently.
  • Must have exceptional time management skills.
  • Must have excellent communication skills and a professional ability to work
    with executive management. 

TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE

  • A combination of a Bachelor’s Degree in a Quantitative subject such as
    Finance, Economics, Mathematics, Statistics or Engineering required AND 2
    years experience or proficiency with SAS and Matlab OR Master’s Degree in a
    Quantitative subject such as Finance, Economics, Mathematics, Statistics or
    Engineering. 

Pre-Employment Screening May Include:

  • Credit Check
  • Criminal Background Check
  • Fingerprinting
  • DMV Check
  • Drug Screen-after offer of employment is extended and before start date
  • Past Employment Verification
  • Social Security Verification

Note: The above statements are intended to describe the general nature and
level of work being performed by people assigned to this job.  They are not
intended to be an exhaustive list of all duties, responsibilities, and skills
required of personnel so classified, and they may change at any time.

EverBank is an equal opportunity employer.  No employee or applicant will be
discriminated against because of race, religion, color, gender, age, marital
status, pregnancy, national origin, genetic information, sexual orientation,
gender identity, citizenship, veteran status, or disability or any other
legally protected status.

EverBank is not seeking assistance or accepting unsolicited resumes from search
firms for employment or contractor opportunities.  Regardless of past practice,
all resumes submitted by search firms to any employee at EverBank via e-mail,
the Internet, or directly to hiring managers at EverBank in any form without
valid written search agreements executed by the VP, Talent Acquisition for that
specific position will be deemed the sole property of EverBank, and no fee will
be paid in the event the candidate is hired by EverBank as a result of the
referral or through other means.

EverBank will not discharge or in any other manner discriminate against
associates or applicants because they have inquired about, discussed, or
disclosed their own pay or the pay of another associate or applicant. However,
associates who have access to the compensation information of other associates
or applicants as a part of their essential job functions cannot disclose the
pay of other associates or applicants to individuals who do not otherwise have
access to compensation information, unless the disclosure is (a) in response to
a formal complaint or charge, (b) in furtherance of an investigation,
proceeding, hearing, or action, including an investigation conducted by
EverBank, or (c) consistent with EverBank's legal duty to furnish information.

Requirements:


EXPERTISE Capital Market & Portfolio Management
JOB TYPE  Full Time
LOCATION  FL - Jacksonville


                                                        [Email Job to a Friend]

                                                                   [APPLY NOW] 


                             [Return to Job List]


