[logo]

  • Home
  • Employment Listings
  • About Us
  • FAQs

    Employment Listings
  • Search Current Openings
  • Update Your Profile
  • Create a Job Agent
  • Update Job Agent
  • Recruiting Agency Login

 

Your user session will timeout in 5 minutes. Please click OK to continue with
your application.

Data Scientist

Tracking Code
    536-600
Job Description
   
    USRA is an independent, nonprofit research corporation where the combined
    efforts of in-house talent and university-based expertise merge to advance
    space science and technology. USRA works across disciplines including
    biomedicine, planetary science, astrophysics, and engineering and
    integrates those competencies into applications ranging from fundamental
    research to facility management and operations. USRA engages the creativity
    and authoritative expertise of the research community to develop and
    deliver sophisticated, forward-looking solutions to Federal agencies and
    other customers - on schedule and within budget.

     

    USRA is seeking a Visiting Postdoctoral Data Scientist for our RIACS
    program for our Mountain View, CA location to support scientific research
    with emphasis on contributing to USRA and NASA missions. Responsibilities
    include carrying out original scientific research in the areas of Data
    Science, Big Data, Data Analytics, Computer Science and other related
    areas. The position will bring rigor and statistical methods to the
    challenges of measuring quality, improving products, understanding user
    behavior and evaluating engineering and scientific data.

     

    DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:

     

    Carry out scientific research: Engage in research work in the areas that
    relate to Data Science by conducting scientific experiments, analyzing
    data, developing scientific models, preparing research seminars, workshops
    and publishing reports and papers. Work with large and complex data sets.
    Solve difficult analysis problems, and apply analytical and statistical
    methodologies.

     

    Develop data analytics software: Engage in software development,
    improvement and support of data analytics tools, scientific programs, data
    visualization, machine learning, and computer software in other related
    areas. Conduct data gathering, requirement specification, data processing,
    data analyzing and deliver presentations and analytics tools.

     

    Work collaboratively in a diverse team: As a member of the USRA/RIACS team,
    the individual will work with a multi-disciplinary group of engineers,
    researchers and scientists, mentor interns and other team members, and
    assist with USRA and NASA projects.

Required Skills
      □ PhD degree in Data Science or related discipline
      □ Postdoctoral research (1-3 years) or relevant work experience
      □ Programming experience in Python, R, Java or JavaScript (1-3 years)
      □ Proven record of successful independent scientific research
      □ Community engagement and knowledge sharing though scientific
        publications, conference talks, posters, etc.

     

    To perform this job successfully, an individual must be able to perform
    duties and responsibilities satisfactorily. Reasonable accommodations may
    be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential
    functions.

     

    Applicants should apply to the posting at https://usracareers.silkroad.com/
     and include a letter of interest, resume, or curriculum vita.  Review of
    candidates will begin immediately.  Additional information on USRA can be
    found at www.usra.edu. 

      

    USRA is an Equal Opportunity Employer Minorities/Females/Protected Veterans
    /Disabled/Sexual Orientation/Gender Identity

Job Location
    Mountain View, California, United States
Position Type
    Full-Time/Regular

Apply

[Create New Account]

[Login to Account]

Connect

Who do you know at
USRA

Share

Return To Job Listings 

© 2017 Universities Space Research Association | Site Map
USRA is an Equal Opportunity Employer
Minorities/Females/Protected Veterans/Disabled/Sexual Orientation/Gender
Identity
Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)
