Product life-cycle management (PLM) is the succession of strategies used by business management as a product goes through its life-cycle. The conditions in which a product is sold (advertising, saturation) changes over time and must be managed as it moves through its succession of stages.

Contents

    1 Goals
    2 Product life cycle
        2.1 Characteristics of PLC stages
        2.2 Identifying PLC stages
    3 Limitations
    4 See also
    5 References
    6 External links

Goals

The goals of Product Life Cycle management (PLM) are to reduce time to market, improve product quality, reduce prototyping costs, identify potential sales opportunities and revenue contributions, and reduce environmental impacts at end-of-life. To create successful new products the company must understand its customers, markets and competitors. Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) integrates people, data, processes and business systems. It provides product information for companies and their extended supply chain enterprise. PLM solutions help organizations overcome the increased complexity and engineering challenges of developing new products for the global competitive markets.[citation needed]
Product life cycle

The concept of product life cycle (PLC) concerns the life of a product in the market with respect to business/commercial costs and sales measures. The product life cycle proceeds through multiple phases, involves many professional disciplines, and requires many skills, tools and processes. PLC management makes the following three assumptions:[citation needed]

    Products have a limited life and thus every product has a life cycle.
    Product sales pass through distinct stages, each posing different challenges, opportunities, and problems to the seller.
    Products require different marketing, financing, manufacturing, purchasing, and human resource strategies in each life cycle stage.

Characteristics of PLC stages

The four main stages of a product's life cycle and the accompanying characteristics are:[citation needed]
Stage 	Characteristics
1. Market introduction stage 	

    costs are very high
    slow sales volumes to start
    little or no competition
    demand has to be created
    customers have to be prompted to try the product
    makes little money at this stage

2. Growth stage 	

    costs reduced due to economies of scale
    sales volume increases significantly
    profitability begins to rise
    public awareness increases
    competition begins to increase with a few new players in establishing market
    increased competition leads to price decreases

3. Maturity stage 	

    costs are decreased as a result of production volumes increasing and experience curve effects
    sales volume peaks and market saturation is reached
    increase in competitors entering the market
    prices tend to drop due to the proliferation of competing products
    brand differentiation and feature diversification is emphasized to maintain or increase market share
    industrial profits go down

4. Saturation and decline stage 	

    costs become counter-optimal
    sales volume decline
    prices, profitability diminish
    profit becomes more a challenge of production/distribution efficiency than increased sales

Note: Product termination is usually not the end of the business cycle, only the end of a single entrant within the larger scope of an ongoing business program.
Identifying PLC stages

Identifying the stage of a product is an art more than a science, but it's possible to find patterns in some of the general product features at each stage. Identifying product stages when the product is in transition is very difficult.[citation needed]

    Identifying
    features 	Stages
    Introduction 	Growth 	Maturity 	Decline
    Sales 	Low 	High 	High 	Low
    Investment cost 	Very high 	High (lower than intro stage) 	Low 	Low
    Competition 	Low or no competition 	High 	Very high 	Very High
    Profit 	Low 	High 	High 	Low

product life cycle at different stages
Limitations

It is important for marketing managers to understand the limitations of the PLC model. It is difficult for marketing management to gauge accurately where a product is on its life cycle. A rise in sales per se is not necessarily evidence of growth, a fall in sales per se does not typify decline and some products, e.g. Coca-Cola and Pepsi, may not experience a decline.

Differing products possess different PLC "shapes". A fad product develops as a steep sloped growth stage, a short maturity stage, and a steep sloped decline stage. Products such as Coca-Cola and Pepsi experience growth, but also a constant level of sales over a number of decades. A given product (or products collectively within an industry) may hold a unique PLC shape such that use of typical PLC models are only useful as a rough guide for marketing management.

For specific products, the duration of each PLC stage is unpredictable and it's difficult to detect when maturity or decline has begun.

Because of these limitations, strict adherence to PLC can lead a company to misleading objectives and strategy prescriptions.
See also

    Application lifecycle management
    Diminishing manufacturing sources and material shortages (DMSMS)
    Material selection
    New product development
    Obsolescence
    Planned obsolescence
    Product lifecycle management
    Product management
    Product teardown
    Software product management
    Technology life cycle
    Toolkits for user innovation

