U.S. flag

An official website of the United States government

 

  •   
      □ Home
      □ Profile
      □ Documents
      □ Username & Password
      □ Sign Out
  • Help
  • Search

Keywords [                    ]
Location [                    ] 
Search
Create an account to get started — build your profile, create or upload resumes
and apply for jobs.
Back to Search results

Mathematical Statistician

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

Agency contact information

1 vacancy in the following location:

  •  Atlanta, GA

Work Schedule is Full Time - Permanent

Opened Wednesday 1/4/2017 (6 day(s) ago)

Closes Thursday 1/12/2017 (2 day(s) away)

  • Salary Range

    $106,380.00 to $138,296.00 / Per Year
  • Series & Grade

    GS-1529-14/14
  • Promotion Potential

    14
  • Supervisory Status

    No

  • Who May Apply

    United States Citizens
  • Control Number

    461091500
  • Job Announcement Number

    HHS-CDC-D3-17-1855421

Apply
Print
Share

  • Email
  • Facebook
  • Google+
  • LinkedIn
  • Twitter
  • Shorten link

Save
Job Overview

Job Overview

Summary

What exciting career opportunities await you at CDC?

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is the agency Americans
trust with their lives. As a global leader in public health, CDC is the
nation's premier health promotion, prevention, and preparedness agency. Whether
we are protecting the American people from public health threats, researching
emerging diseases, or mobilizing public health programs with our domestic and
international partners, we rely on our employees to make a real difference in
the health and well-being of people here and around the world.

Who May Apply: Open to US citizens and applicants eligible under Schedule A
authority.

This vacancy is also being announced concurrently with vacancy announcement
HHS-CDC-M3-17-1855519 under merit promotion procedures. Please review that
announcement to see if you are eligible for consideration under merit promotion
procedures. NOTE: Applicants must apply separately for each announcement in
order to be considered.

This position is located in the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS),
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), National Center for Emerging
Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Food, Waterborne, and
Environmental Diseases (DFWED), Office of the Director (OD), in Atlanta,
Georgia.

PHS Commissioned Corps Officers interested in performing the duties of this
position within the Commissioned Corps (not as a career/career-conditional
employee) are encouraged to apply under the merit promotion announcement
indicated above.

Additional selections may be made within the same geographical location
CDC-wide.

CDC is an Equal Opportunity Employer.

Duties

As a Mathematical Statistician you will: 

  • Plan and lead primary research studies or surveillance efforts 
  • Plan and lead secondary research studies 
  • Provide leadership in the design, development, and maintenance of publicly
    accessible disease-related and injury-related query and reporting
    applications 
  • Lead or carry out comparative reviews of statistical methods and
    statistical analysis software, and make recommendations regarding the most
    appropriate choices in various research and analysis scenarios 
  • Provide statistical consulting 
  • Extend established statistical methods and software and develop new
    approaches to meet novel or emerging data analysis or research needs 
  • Write reports based on the results of primary or secondary research
    studies, and disseminate results through publications and presentations

Travel Required

  • Not Required

Relocation Authorized

  • No

Job Requirements

Job Requirements

Key Requirements

  • U.S. Citizenship is required.
  • Background investigation required.
  • Transcripts are required.

Qualifications

BASIC REQUIREMENTS:
A. A full four-year course of study at an accredited college or university
leading to a bachelor's or higher degree that includes 24 semester hours of
mathematics and statistics, of which at least 12 semester hours were in
mathematics and 6 semester hours were in statistics.
                                                                                              
-OR-
B. A combination of education and experience with at least 24 semester hours of
mathematics and statistics, including 12 semester hours were in mathematics and
6 semester hours were in statistics, as shown in A above, plus appropriate
experience or additional education.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
In addition to meeting the basic requirements above, applicants must have at
least one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-13 grade
level in the Federal service as defined in the next paragraph:
Specialized experience is experience which is directly related to the position
which has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and
abilities (KSAs) to successfully perform the duties of the position in
providing advice and consultation on mathematics, statistics, research methods
and data management, planning, developing, evaluating and executing
mathematical statistical approaches for research, surveillance systems, and
other studies, and facilitating data collection and analysis activities related
to epidemiology, laboratory science, and bioinformatics to ensure the
appropriate application of mathematical statistical methods.

Foreign Education: Education completed in colleges or universities outside the
United States may be used to meet the education requirements. You must provide
acceptable documentation that the foreign education is comparable to that
received in an accredited educational institution in the United States. For
more information on how foreign education is evaluated, visit: http://
wwwdev.cdc.gov/employment/newhire/foreigned.html.

 

Conditions of Employment:

1. Security and Background Requirements: If not previously completed, a
background security investigation will be required for all appointees.
Appointment will be subject to the applicant's successful completion of a
background security investigation and favorable adjudication. Failure to
successfully meet these requirements may be grounds for appropriate personnel
action. In addition, if hired, a background security reinvestigation or
supplemental investigation may be required at a later time. Applicants are also
advised that all information concerning qualifications is subject to
investigation. False representation may be grounds for non-consideration,
non-selection and/or appropriate disciplinary action.

2. E-Verify: If you are selected for this position, the documentation that you
present for purposes of completing the Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
Form I-9 will be verified through the DHS "E-Verify" System. Federal law
requires DHS to use the E-Verify System to verify employment eligibility of all
new hires, and as a condition of continued employment obligates the new hire to
take affirmative steps to resolve any discrepancies identified by the system.
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services is an E-Verify Participant.

3. Direct Deposit: All Federal employees are required to have Federal salary
payments made by direct deposit to a financial institution of their choosing.

4. All qualification requirements must be met by the closing date of the
announcement.

5. One-year probationary period may be required.

6. Travel, transportation, and moving expenses will be paid: No

7. Bargaining Unit Position: No

8. Drug Screening Required: No

9. Recruitment Incentive may be authorized: No

10. Annual Leave for non-federal service authorized: No

11. Research position: No

12. Promotion potential: No

13. Supervisor-CSRA: Yes, since this is a Supervisor-CSRA position, candidates
must also have demonstrated or shown the potential to develop the necessary
knowledge, skills, and abilities. Applicants should describe any previous
experience or responsibilities which could be used in relation to the
supervisory requirements of this position.

Once the application process is complete, a review of the resume and supporting
documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the
assessment questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If,
after reviewing your resume and/or supporting documentation, a determination is
made that you have inflated your qualifications and/or experience, you may lose
consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully.
Errors or omissions may affect your eligibility. Category rating procedures
will be used to rate and rank candidates.

Security Clearance

Q - Nonsensitive

Additional Information

Additional Information

What To Expect Next

Once the online questionnaire is received you will receive an acknowledgement
email that your submission was successful. The most highly qualified candidates
will be referred to the hiring manager for further consideration and possible
interview. We expect to make a selection within 45 days of the closing date of
this announcement.

You will receive notice via email or by mail, if no email address was provided
by you during the application process, once this process is completed
(generally 4-6 weeks).


BENEFITS

The Federal Government offers a comprehensive benefits package. Explore the
major benefits offered to most Federal employees at https://help.usajobs.gov/
index.php/Pay_and_Benefits.


Other Information

If you are a veteran with preference eligibility and you are claiming 5-points
veterans' preference, you must submit a copy of your DD-214 or other proof of
eligibility. If you are claiming 10-point veterans' preference, you must also
submit an SF-15, "Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference" plus the proof
required by that form.

For more information on veterans preference see http://www.fedshirevets.gov/job
/vetpref/index.aspx.

Males born after December 31, 1959 must be registered or exempt from Selective
Service (see http://www.sss.gov). For information on "People with Disabilities"
please visit http://opm.gov/disability/PeopleWithDisabilities.asp

Interagency Career Transition Assistance Program (ICTAP): For information on
how to apply as an ICTAP eligible see http://opm.gov/rif/employee_guides/
career_transition.asp#ictap. To be well-qualified and exercise selection
priority for this vacancy, displaced Federal employees must be rated at 85.0 or
above on the rating criteria for this position.

This job originated on www.usajobs.gov. For the full announcement and to apply,
visit www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/461091500. Only resumes submitted
according to the instructions on the job announcement listed at www.usajobs.gov
will be considered.

How to Apply

How to Apply

To apply for this position, you must complete the occupational questionnaire
and submit the documentation specified in the Required Documents section below.
The complete application package must be submitted by 11:59 PM (EST) on
Thursday, January 12, 2017 to receive consideration.

* To begin, click Apply Online to create a USAJOBS account or log in to your
existing account. Follow the prompts to select your USAJOBS resume and/or other
supporting documents and complete the occupational questionnaire.

* Click the Submit My Answers button to submit your application package.

* It is your responsibility to ensure your responses and appropriate
documentation is submitted prior to the closing date.

* To verify your application is complete, log into your USAJOBS account, https:
//my.usajobs.gov/Account/Login,

select the Application Status link and then select the more information link
for this position. The Details page will display the status of your
application, the documentation received and processed, and any correspondence
the agency has sent related to this application. Your uploaded documents may
take several hours to clear the virus scan process.

* To return to an incomplete application, log into your USAJOBS account and
click Update Application in the vacancy announcement. You must re-select your
resume and/or other documents from your USAJOBS account or your application
will be incomplete.

How You Will Be Evaluated

The category assignment is a measure of the degree to which your background
matches the competencies required for this position. Qualified candidates will
be ranked into one of three categories: Best Qualified, Well Qualified or
Qualified. The Category Rating Process does not add veterans preference points
but protects the rights of veterans by placing them ahead of non-preference
eligibles within each category. Preference eligibles who meet the minimum
qualification requirements and who have a compensable service-connected
disability of at least 10 percent must be listed in the highest quality
category (except in the case of scientific or professional positions at the
GS-9 level or higher). Your qualifications will be evaluated on the following
competencies (knowledge, skills, abilities and other characteristics). You do
not have to respond to the KSAs separately but your resume should contain
sufficient information to demonstrate possession of the KSAs.

 1. Model a high standard of quality and commitment to organizational
    objectives
 2. Provide expert advice, methodologies and problem-solving assistance to
    customers 
 3. Determine the methodological and statistical approach for applied health
    research 
 4. Use a variety of approaches to manage and resolve concerns, disagreements,
    and conflicts
 5. Build professional skills and competencies and improve work processes 
 6. Foster and initiate new ideas, methods and solutions 
 7. Commit to satisfying internal and external customers 
 8. Identify and apply analytical methods, techniques, and tools to analyze and
    interpret data 
 9. Collaborate with investigators to facilitate data collection 
10. Assess data for completeness, accuracy, and quality 
11. Organize, store, secure, document, and manage data to facilitate
    appropriate access and use
12. Make decisions in a timely manner 
13. Recognize each person's differences and utilize those to increase
    organizational effectiveness 
14. Respond quickly to change and easily consider new approaches 
15. Gain the trust of others by taking responsibility for own actions and
    telling the truth 
16. Consider and respond appropriately to the needs and feelings of people in
    different situations 
17. Foster an inclusive workplace where differences are valued and used to
    achieve the mission 
18. Deliver clear, effective communication and take responsibility for
    understanding others 
19. Monitor and evaluate performance against goals, and makes adjustments to
    achieve goals 
20. Accurately assess problems and effectively and efficiently arrive at
    effective solutions 
21. Create and maintain an environment that guides a project to its successful
    completion 
22. Apply knowledge of public health principles, theory & policy to improve
    public health approaches 
23. Apply a comprehensive and evolving knowledge of statistical theory, methods
    and techniques
24. Present and disseminate results of statistical analyses to target audiences
25. Respond professionally in stressful and difficult situations 
26. Focus on desired results and set and achieve challenging goals 
27. Proactively identify and act on problems and opportunities
28. Software Literacy] Apply appropriate statistical software packages based on
    their capabilities and limitations
29. Provide direction and leadership to help teams achieve goals & operate
    cooperatively & cohesively
30. Demonstrate a depth of judgment, knowledge and technical skill important
    for the position
31. Express oneself clearly in business writing

Required Documents

Required Documents

Faxing Applications or Supporting Documents:

You are encouraged to apply online. Applying online will allow you to review
and track the status of your application.

NOTE: If you applied online and your application is complete, do not fax the
paper application (1203FX) as this will overwrite your prior online responses
and may result in you being found ineligible. If you completed the occupational
questionnaire online and are unable to upload supporting document(s):

1. To fax your documents, you must use the following cover page http://
staffing.opm.gov/pdf/usascover.pdf

and provide the required information. The Vacancy ID is 1855421.

2. Fax your documents to 1-478-757-3144 . If you cannot complete the
Application Package online, you may fax all of your materials. The complete
application package must be submitted by 11:59 PM (EST) on Thursday, January
12, 2017to receive consideration.

Keep a copy of your fax confirmation in the event verification is needed. To
complete the occupational questionnaire and submit via fax:

1. Click the following link to view and print the occupational questionnaire
View Occupational Questionnaire.

2. Print the 1203FX form, follow the instructions and provide your responses to
the occupational questionnaire items http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdfimage/
opm1203fx.pdf.

3. Fax the completed 1203FX form along with any supporting documents to
1-478-757-3144 .

Your 1203FX will serve as a cover page for your fax transmission.

1. Your Résumé - You are encouraged to use the USAJobs online resume builder to
ensure that all required information is in your resume. If you use your own
résumé, curriculum vitae, or any other written form you choose then you must
describe your job-related qualifications that include beginning and ending
dates for paid and non-paid work experience, hours worked per week, month and
year of employment for each job title listed.

2. A complete Assessment Questionnaire

3. Other supporting documents:

- Veterans Preference Documentation, if applicable
- Proof of Education: Transcript(s); Evaluation of Foreign Education
- Schedule A Eligibility Letter if you are applying as a Schedule A candidate.
Note: You may submit an unofficial transcript or a list of college courses
completed indicating course titles, credit hours, and grades received. An
official transcript from an accredited educational institution is required if
you are selected for the position.

Failure to submit any of the above mentioned required documents may result in
loss of consideration due to an incomplete application package. It is your
responsibility to ensure all required documents have been submitted.
For Résumé and Application Tips visit: https://help.usajobs.gov/index.php/Tips

The complete Application Package must be submitted by 11:59 PM (EST) on
Thursday, January 12, 2017.

Apply
Print Share Save
[HE39]

Department Of Health And Human Services

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

Contact


CDC HR HelpDesk
Phone: (770)488-1725
TDD: (866) 539-4484
Email : HRCS@CDC.GOV


Address


HHS CDC Center
1600 Clifton Rd
Atlanta
GA


View Map

View Map

Please wait while map is being generated.

                                  Please wait
Close
Beginning of a dialog window for your session has expired. Escape will cancel
And close the window.

Your Session is About to Expire!

Your USAJOBS session will expire due to inactivity in three minutes. Any
unsaved data will be lost if you allow the session to expire. Click the button
below to continue your session.

Logoff Stay Logged In
Close
Return to top

  • Job Applications
  • All
  • Advancing
  • Paused
  • Stopped

  • Account
  • Home
  • Profile
  • Documents
  • Saved Jobs
  • Saved Searches
  • Username & Password

  • Help
  • Help Center
  • About USAJOBS
  • Contact Us
  • FAQs
  • Get Started
  • How to…
  • Working in Government

USAJOBS is a United States Office of Personnel Management website.

     

  • EEO Policy Statement
  • Reasonable Accommodation Policy Statement
  • Veterans Information
  • Legal and Regulatory Guidance

  • Budget and Performance
  • FOIA
  • Inspector General
  • No Fear Act Data
  • Privacy Policy
  • USA.gov

