logo
My Profile / My Saved Jobs / Network With Us Search
[                    ]
[Search]
Search
[                    ] [Go]

  • Jobs/
    BackJobs
      □ Search Jobs
      □ My Profile
      □ My Saved Jobs
      □ My Saved Searches
    Search all Jobs
  • Why Work Here/
    BackWhy Work Here
      □ Corporate Fast Facts
      □ Our Businesses
      □ Our Affiliates
      □ Our Locations
      □ Top 7 Reasons
      □ Rewards & Benefits
      □ Mission & Values
      □ Our Work Environment
      □ Diversity
      □ Meet Our People
      □ Awards & Recognition
      □ Newsroom
      □ Transitioning Military
    See Why We Work Here
  • Career Areas/
    BackCareer Areas
      □ Customer Service & Claims
        BackCustomer Service & Claims
          ☆ Claims
          ☆ Customer Service & Call Center
          ☆ Billing
          ☆ Enrollment & Eligibility
      □ Clinical
        BackClinical
          ☆ Nurse & Nurse Leadership
          ☆ Nurse Practitioners & Physicians Assistants
          ☆ Physicians
          ☆ Pharmacy
          ☆ Behavioral Health
          ☆ Clinical Support
          ☆ Medical Coding
      □ Health Care Operations
        BackHealth Care Operations
          ☆ Actuarial
          ☆ Health Care Economics
          ☆ Underwriting
          ☆ Provider Relations
          ☆ Executive Leadership
          ☆ Network Management & Contract & Pricing
          ☆ Regulatory & Compliance
      □ Corporate Services
        BackCorporate Services
          ☆ Administrative Support Services
          ☆ Finance and Accounting
          ☆ Legal
          ☆ Human Resources
          ☆ Business Operations Leadership
      □ Sales & Marketing
        BackSales & Marketing
          ☆ Account Management
          ☆ Communications
          ☆ Product Development & Management
          ☆ Sales & Sales Support
          ☆ Marketing & Advertising
          ☆ Telesales
      □ Project Management
        BackProject Management
          ☆ Six Sigma Project Management
          ☆ IT Project Management
          ☆ Business Project Management
      □ Consulting
        BackConsulting
          ☆ Optum Consulting
          ☆ Optum360 Consulting
          ☆ Government Consulting
      □ Technology
        BackTechnology
          ☆ Applications & Web Development
          ☆ Software Engineering
          ☆ Security & Risk Management
          ☆ Data Analytics & Warehousing
          ☆ Architecture
          ☆ Systems Analysis
          ☆ Network & Infrastructure
    See all Career Areas
  • Getting Hired/
    BackGetting Hired
      □ Recruiter Chat
      □ Career Events
      □ Go Social
      □ UnitedHealth Group Blog
      □ Our Hiring Process
      □ Digital Video Interviewing
      □ Transitioning Military
      □ Resume Advice
      □ Interview Tips
      □ Frequently Asked Questions
    See All Getting Hired
  • College
    BackCollege
      □ Is UnitedHealth Group For You
      □ Life at UnitedHealth Group
      □ Meet Our Recruiters
      □ Student Programs
      □ Explore Your Options
      □ Campus Recruiting Events
      □ College Recruiting Blog
      □ Frequently Asked Questions
    College

Job Search: [Enter Keyword, job t]
[Enter a city, state,] [Select a Region or Country     ] 
[Select a Job Field            ] [Go]
Jobs in U.S. & Canada Jobs outside U.S. & Canada
EMAIL PRINT
Careers at UnitedHealth Group > Data Scientist - Boston, MA or Minnetonka, MN
Find All Jobs near me [                    ] [                    ]

Data Scientist - Boston, MA or Minnetonka, MN

Bookmark and Share
Save this job
Email this job
Text This Job

[]
Saved Jobs Data Scientist - Boston, MA or Minnetonka, MN - 696346

Apply Now Apply Now

Position Description

At Optum, we create hundreds of custom applications and manage thousands of
hardware components.


Together, we deliver smarter, faster and simpler solutions for a modern,
innovative health system. We are also the career home to Data Scientists who
bring compassion and passion, energy and focus to their work every day. If you
strive to help people live healthier lives by building your career with a
leader in health care, this is the career for you! Come share your expertise
and your passion and do your life's best work.SM

 

Are you fascinated by data? Are you excited about running that REALLY big job
and seeing the result? As a Data Scientist with Optum, you will be using the
massive sets of data in our data lake to build high impact models. Join us to
work as part of a dynamic team to transform the business using machine learning
and data science techniques. Help us transform ourselves and the industry with
innovative, high value projects working with a dynamic, interdisciplinary team.
Use data with impact and build cutting edge algorithms on huge data sets to
solve real world problems.

 

 

 

Primary Responsibilities:

 

  • Develop analyses, methodologies and models

  • Design sampling methodology, prepare data, identify appropriate analytic
    and statistical methodology, develop predictive models and document process
    and results

  • Create and provide sound statistical analyses and develop predictive models
    using structured and unstructured data, and frame business scenarios

  • Use data from several data sources to support solution features, train and
    drive test models

  • Communicate analytic results and predictive models to business partners and
    clients

  • Develop requirements for developers to include outcomes in software
    solutions

  • Provide on-going tracking and monitoring of application performance and
    recommend improvements to methods and algorithms

 




Requirements

To be considered for this position, applicants need to meet the qualifications
listed in this posting.

Required Qualifications:

  • 3+ years of demonstrated Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence,
    Predictive Analytics experience
  • 2+ years of experience manipulating large datasets
  • Experience in applying core Machine Learning methodologies:  Regression,
    Classification, Clustering, Matrix Factorization, Predictive Analytics,
    Natural Language processing, Decision trees, Support Vector Machines,
    Neural Networks/ Deep Learning
  • 1+ years’ experience building prototypes in R, Python, Scala, Java or
    similar stack to demonstrate the results of algorithmic approaches

Preferred Qualifications:

  • Advanced degree in quantitative field such as Computer Science, Statistics,
    Applied Mathematics or similar field

  • Self-motivated

  • Capable of grasping analytical concepts and clearly understanding how
    analytical solutions can be incorporated into broader business solutions

  • Working knowledge of various Machine Learning and Cognitive technologies
    such as IBM Watson,  AmazonML, Google CloudML, Azure ML Studio

  • Experience working with analytic tools such as SAS, SPSS, R Studio, or
    others

  • Experience with Big Data technologies like Hadoop, Hive, Spark, H2o and
    others

  • Agile software development experience

  • Professional verbal and written communication skills

  • Experience with healthcare data

 



Careers with Optum. Here's the idea. We built an entire organization around one
giant objective; make health care work better for everyone. So when it comes to
how we use the world?s large accumulation of health-related information, or
guide health and lifestyle choices or manage pharmacy benefits for millions,
our first goal is to leap beyond the status quo and uncover new ways to serve.
Optum, part of the UnitedHealth Group family of businesses, brings together
some of the greatest minds and most advanced ideas on where health care has to
go in order to reach its fullest potential. For you, that means working on high
performance teams against sophisticated challenges that matter. Optum,
incredible ideas in one incredible company and a singular opportunity to do
your life's best work.^SM


   Diversity creates a healthier atmosphere: UnitedHealth Group is an Equal
Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer and all qualified applicants
   will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color,
   religion, sex, age, national origin, protected veteran status, disability
  status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, marital status,
      genetic information, or any other characteristic protected by law.


UnitedHealth Group is a drug-free workplace. Candidates are required to pass a
                    drug test before beginning employment.

                                        

                                        

Keywords: Data Scientist, Data science, Machine Learning, ML, Artificial
Intelligence, AI, algorithm, predictive analytics, model, statistical,
analytics, RStudio, Scala, Python, Java, Hadoop, Hive, Spark, H2o, Agile,
healthcare, health care, prototypes, Regression, Classification, Clustering,
Matrix Factorization, Predictive Analytics, Natural Language processing, NLP,
Decision trees, Support Vector Machines, Neural Networks/Deep Learning

Apply Now Apply Now
Save this job Email this job Text this job Share this Job Bookmark and Share
Job Details

Contest Number:   696346
Job Title:        Data Scientist - Boston, MA or Minnetonka, MN
Job Family:       Information Technology
Business Segment: OptumInsight

Job Location Information:

Region:                               North America
Country:                              United States
City:                                 Boston
State/Province:                       Massachusetts
Other States where Job(s) is Located: MN,,,,
Other Cities where job(s) is Located: Minnetonka,,,,

Additional Job Detail Information:

Employee Status:       Regular
Schedule:              Full-time
Job Level:             Individual Contributor
Shift:                 Day Job
Travel:                No
Telecommuter Position: No
Overtime Status:       Exempt

Saved Jobs
0 Saved Jobs
View saved jobs
Similar Jobs
Eden Prairie, MN
Senior Java Software Engineer - Eden Prairie, MN685717

Boston, MA
Software Engineer in Test - Boston, MA691006

Atlanta, GA
C# / Web Developer - Atlanta, GA682982

Find a Career
rc_legal

Legal & Compliance

You’ll work to safeguard company assets and monitor compliance with one of the
most prominent players in the health care industry.

Find a Job
APPLY APPLY SAVE

  • Site Links

      □ Network With Us
      □ Report a Problem
      □ Site Feedback
  • corporate web site

      □ UnitedHealth Group Home
      □ About Us
      □ Businesses
      □ Social Responsibility
      □ Investors
      □ Newsroom
      □ Diversity & Inclusion
  • Social responsibility & diversity

          ☆ At UnitedHealth Group, we are committed to a powerful idea - that
            accessible,
            affordable and quality health care should be available to everyone.
          ☆ Visit the Social Responsibility Website
          ☆ We embrace and encourage a culture of diversity and inclusion. We
            know that valuing diversity makes good business sense and helps to
            ensure our future success.
          ☆ Learn more at our Corporate Diversity & Inclusion web site
  • Fraudulent Activity

        We have received recent reports of fraudulent emails purporting to be
        sent from UnitedHealth Group, UnitedHealthcare, or Optum recruiting
        personnel.
         
        The fraudulent emails, which do not originate from any of UnitedHealth
        Group’s email domains, or those of any of its operating divisions,
        supposedly ask recipients to contact the sender to start the company’s
        hiring process by downloading software and/or requesting a fee.
         
        UnitedHealth Group will never request you download software or pay a
        fee of any sort to explore employment opportunities with our company.

        If you wish to verify the legitimacy of any email purporting to have
        been sent by or on behalf of UnitedHealth Group recruiters,  please
        call 1-800-561-0861 between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. CT, Monday - Friday, for
        assistance. You also may inquire via email to lifesbestwork@uhg.com.

  • Choose Your Country

      □ North America
          ☆ United States
      □ Asia Pacific
          ☆ India
          ☆ Philippines
      □ Europe Middle East and Africa
          ☆ United Kingdom
          ☆ Ireland
      □ Latin America
          ☆ Brazil

facebookinstagramLogoTypeCWSfront1fwbloggergpluslinkedinpinteresttwitteryoutube
glassdoor


Contact Us  Privacy Policy  Family & Medical Leave Act  Equal Employment Law
Poster  Pay Transparency  Employee Polygraph Protection Act  E-Verify
Participation Poster  OSC Right to Work Poster

© 2016 UnitedHealth Group, All rights reserved.

UnitedHealth Group is committed to working with and providing reasonable
accommodations to individuals with physical and mental disabilities. If you
need special assistance or accommodation for any part of the application
process, or you encounter technical difficulties, please call 1-800-561-0861
between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. CT, Monday - Friday, for assistance.

UnitedHealth Group is a registered service mark of UnitedHealth Group, Inc. The
UnitedHealth Group name with the dimensional logo, as well as the dimensional
logo alone, are both service marks for the UnitedHealth Group, Inc.

Diversity creates a healthier atmosphere: All qualified applicants will receive
consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, age,
national origin, protected veteran status, disability status, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, marital status, genetic
information, or any other characteristic protected by law.

UnitedHealth Group is a drug-free workplace. Candidates are required to pass a
drug test before beginning employment.

Get Adobe Reader  Get Adobe Flash Player


© 2015 UnitedHealth Group, Todos os direitos reservados .
© 2015 UnitedHealth Group, Todos os direitos reservados .
Acrobat Reader Flash
