SGT Careers

Data Analytics/Computer Scientist

Information Technology Moffett Field, California

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Apply

Description

The EVA Data Integration Project addresses actions from a 2014 EVA on-orbit
incident and long standing challenges in gaining accurate, efficient, and
effective use and access to EVA data and EVA data systems.  This project
supports the EVA Management Office by designing, developing, and delivering a
new set of data management services, and developing information architectures
to organize and create useful forms of EVA data for current and future work. 
The objective is to support the EVA Management Office’s responsibility that all
EVA data and documentation is accessible, managed, controlled, and archived to
reduce the effort of finding, using, and managing EVA data through the
introduction of various integrated capabilities, such as data browsing,
searching, integration, and review.

We are seeking a data analytics professional to assist the analysis of this
data and help inform the types of analytics tools to incorporate in the EVA
data system. In this role the successful candidate will:

  • Work with simulated data record (both historical and real-time) and create
    ways to tag the data, generate metadata using new metadata standards (e.g.
    hdf5) and parse the data into usable formats using aggregation and
    filtering techniques
  • Create a queuing strategy to will handle asynchronous call to data from
    source to location. The user will be agnostic about performance and/or
    query. (Distributed logger with distributed high performance pub-sub
    messaging using Apache Kafka)
  • Create new document-based database schemas (json-based) that can be
    deployed in a distributed manner to solve latency and bottlenecks for large
    queries. (data sinks using systems like rocksDB/Cassandra)
  • Create and deliver prototype that will demonstrate the feasibility of using
    open source packages to deal with streaming data (e.g. real time data
    validation using apache spark)
  • Create both hard and soft real-time analytical modules based on machine
    learning algorithms to extract useful features from data. The hard module
    can be an embedded GPU board (e.g. Nvidia Jetson) that runs a forward
    trained model to analyze patterns and behavior in data streams. The soft
    module is more of an offline analysis tool for generating recommendations
    and alerts.
  • Deliver an onboard visualization platform for fast exploratory analysis.
  • Review and recommend technologies and architecture design
  • Design and recommend system specifications that can be used to deploy the
    data analytics platform.

Requirements

 1. A degree in Computer Science or related discipline with emphasis on data
    analytics
 2. Experience with Database Systems, Relational and NoSQL
 3. Experience analyzing big data with metadata tagging
 4. Data Interchange Formats: XML, JSON
 5. Experience developing or integrating data visualization capabilities
 6. Strong experience with programming languages like JAVA, Python, JavaScript
 7. Knowledge of implementing pub/sub capabilities, especially with Apache
    Kafka
 8. Exceptional written and oral communication skills


You are submitting your information for consideration to a position that is
currently available under the Intelligent Systems Research & Development
Services 2 (ISRDS-2) program at Ames Research Center, CA. If selected, your
employment offer may be with SGT or one of our teammates on the contract.

 



The Equal Employment Opportunity Policy of the SGT is to provide a fair and
equal employment opportunity for all employees and job applicants regardless of
race, color, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age,
marital status or disability. SGT hires and promotes individuals solely on the
basis of their qualifications for the job to be filled. SGT believes that
employees should be provided with a working environment which enables them to
be productive and to work to the best of his or her ability. We do not condone
or tolerate an atmosphere of intimidation or harassment based on race, color,
religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status or
disability. We expect and require the cooperation of all employees in
maintaining a discrimination and harassment-free atmosphere.

Apply Apply Later
← Back to Current Openings
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Share

LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Email
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Similar Jobs

{{ job.title }}

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Powered by Jobvite

