   
    [9b24d503-1]   

  Join our Talent Network!

  Thanks for your interest!  Are you passionate about the work you do,
  curious by nature and enjoy working in a team environment?  If the answer
  is yes, please fill out the information below to receive updates from
  Precima!
  
  If you're not interested in updates, simply click skip & continue to begin
  your application.


   
   *First Name    [                    ]
   *Last Name     [                    ]
   *Primary Email [                    ]
   Resume         [                    ]

   [Save & Continue]  [Skip & Continue]


  Job Description:
  ....  read more -->>
  Description About Precima   Precima applies shopper insights derived from
  advanced analytics to help retailers and manufacturers drive sales growth
  and boost profitabilit
  Description


  About Precima

   

  Precima applies shopper insights derived from advanced analytics to help
  retailers and manufacturers drive sales growth and boost profitability.
  Using comprehensive fact bases of purchase data, Precima's experts help you
  improve your marketing and merchandising, identify opportunities for growth
  and align both internal teams and external partners to best meet shoppers'
  needs

   

  Precima tailors the scope and pace of its solutions to the unique
  priorities of each client. The overall goal is to achieve not just tactical
  wins but long - term strategic gains, encouraging retailers to broaden the
  marketing agenda and fully explore the potential of sophisticated shopper
  insights.

   

  Precima's roster of past and current clients includes many leading Fortune
  1000 brands, among them some of the top high-frequency retailers in North
  America. Backed by first-hand experience with leading retail and
  manufacturing organizations, the Precima team brings a remarkable blend of
  expertise in loyalty, analytics, marketing and management to help you make
  more informed and profitable business decisions. 


  About the Opportunity


  The Data Scientist will provide process execution support for client
  projects.  The person will be accessing, analyzing and interpreting
  point-of-sale, merchandising and marketing data on behalf of Precima
  clients to implement advanced predictive models leveraging statistics,
  mathematics and econometrics to support business objectives in
  merchandising and marketing such as price optimization, assortment
  optimization, target audience selection, marketing campaign design and
  execution, and marketing mix optimization.                                   

   

  This role is an integral part of the Research and Development Team. The
  successful candidate will have relevant B2B and retail industry experience
  and demonstrated capabilities in statistical and econometric modeling in
  advanced analytics applications. The candidate will understand the business
  needs of a B2B, retailer or CPG client as well as the appropriate
  analytical approaches to merchandising and marketing problems encountered
  by these clients. 


  Responsibilities

    • Support the implementation of advanced statistical and econometric
      models of pricing, assortment and targeted marketing

    • Interpret, document and present/communicate analytical results to
      multiple business disciplines, providing conclusions and
      recommendations based on customer-centric data

    • Take analytical objectives and define data requirements. Extract,
      clean, and transform customer and item-level data for purposes of
      analysis, modeling/segmentation and reporting

    • Identify, develop and make recommendations for process improvements and
      best practices; own implementation of recommendations required

    • Execute on Precima’s engagement with Clients, delivering on our
      commitments and assisting the client to understand and derive the most
      value out of Precima-provided initiatives and tools

  Qualifications


  Qualifications

    ● Master Degree (PhD preferred) in Statistics, Operations Research,
      Mathematics, Economics, Econometrics, Industrial Engineering, Computer
      Science

    ● Minimum of 5 years of directly related work experience in Econometric
      Modeling or Marketing Analytics

    ● Expert proficiency in developing original statistical and econometric
      models in pricing, assortment and marketing mix to support clients in
      B2B, Retail and CPG areas.

    ● Expert proficiency in implementing models using SAS, R or Python.

    ● Working knowledge of C++/C# and SQL

    ● Advanced knowledge of Microsoft Word, Excel,  PowerPoint


  Alliance Data is an Equal Employment Opportunity employer. Accordingly, we
  will make reasonable accommodations to respond to the needs of people with
  disabilities in accordance with legislation.

   

  ....  read more -->>


  Terms and Conditions | Privacy Statement

  Connect with Us!
  [9f4fba25-c][992c740e-9][ad28bd4c-a][529d2d86-d][948c9]
  Internal use only: [ADSLOY-TF-311]
  
   
