If you previously applied for a job at City of Hope, please proceed to the
bottom of this page to sign in as a returning applicant.

If you are a new applicant please select the Apply for this Position button.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Research Protocol Analyst

Department: Lab Res Subject Protection-BRI

Requisition ID:                     8805
Schedule Type:                      Full-Time
Shift:                              Days
Location:                           Beckman Research Inst ? Duarte (Duarte, CA)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Description

Requisition ID: 8805

Job Title: Research Protocol Analyst

Position Summary and Key Responsibilities:

This position is primarily in support of the Institutional Review Board (IRB). 
Responsible for protocol pre-review and coordination of protocol submissions of
human subject research studies, including compliance with institutional,
federal, and state policies and communicating with research investigators and
their staff in an effort to facilitate protocol submission, review and approval
processes. 

Participates in Department effort to coordinate generation and distribution of
meeting agendas, developing meeting summaries/minutes reflective of the
committee?s protocol review activity, deliberations and determinations. 
Maintains audit-ready electronic files. 

The position requires frequent interaction with Principal Investigators (PIs)
and their administrative staff and the IRB membership.   Helps coordinate
activities through the electronic protocol submission system, Integrated
Research Information System (IRIS), relative to the Human Research Subjects
Protection area.

Essential Functions:

  * Use iRIS to process varying protocol submission types (New Study,
    Amendments, Continuations, Deviations, Adverse Events) using the
    appropriate level of regulatory review in compliance with federal and state
    regulations. Processing of submissions entails a high level and detailed
    pre-review process in line with Department procedures and policies.
  * Use iRIS to compose detailed and highly complex meeting summaries/minutes
    that describe the IRB deliberations, description of controverted issues and
    their resolution, justifications and ethical principles analyzed and
    reviewed by the Board. 
  * Use iRIS to compose detailed and highly complex correspondence, requiring a
    comprehensive level of knowledge of state and federal regulations and COH
    policies and procedures, to PIs to assure that all concerns, rationales and
    technical questions of the respective committees are concisely and
    intelligibly communicated to PIs.  Incorporate written comments provided by
    Board members into understandable, appropriate actions that must be
    addressed by the PI.
  * Attend meetings with other COH committees (e.g., Rapid Improvement Event
    (RIE), etc.), as needed.  Participate as an active member when attending
    these meetings, providing information/recommendations from the IRB?s
    perspective.  Report back to the HRSP staff any issues requiring further
    discussion or problem solving.
  * Assess PI responses to conditions imposed by the IRB for completeness and
    appropriateness.  Interact with PI and/or PI staff directly to advise them
    of the appropriateness of the response and communicate any requirements not
    addressed in order for the PI to secure approval of the study protocol. 
    Following assessment, advise the respective Chair and/or the Operations
    Manager of any outstanding issues yet to be resolved or of the
    approvability of the response as it relates to the study protocol.
  * Use iRIS to maintain organized and accurate computer e-files for each
    respective protocol component, e.g., protocol, title page, consent
    documents.
  * Develop and maintain daily operational procedures for the efficient
    processing of research proposals and responses to conditions, including
    routine tracking of protocol workload, handling of protocol status
    inquiries, issuing of action notices, and review of responses and related
    protocol business while maintaining HRSP standards for timelines as
    determined by the Operations Manager/Director.
  * Provide feedback regarding electronic processing of research proposals,
    including proper and effective receipt, logging, routine tracking, handling
    of protocol status inquiries, generation of meeting agendas and meeting
    minutes, issuing of action notices, and review of responses and related
    protocol business.  Develop user interface questions and help text to
    facilitate creation and improvement of iRIS functions in regard to the
    submission, review, and tracking of research proposals.  Review iRIS and
    propose changes, clarifications and improvements to the application.
  * Use iRIS to monitor protocol approval dates, generate protocol status
    reports, and inform PIs of impending protocol lapses through electronic
    reminder notices.  Discuss any problematic issues with the HRSP Operations
    Manager.
  * Coordinate additional reviews and approval requirements needed from the
    Radiation Safety Committee (RSC), the Institutional Biosafety Committee
    (IBC), and the Occupational Safety and Biohazards Committee (OSBC), etc in
    order that the human subjects research project can be initiated. 
  * Take responsibility for prioritizing respective committee business and
    urgent requests submitted by PIs.   Discuss prioritization issues with HRSP
    Operations Manager when necessary.
  * Review submitted documents for completeness and accuracy.
  * Maintain protocol documents as per the established HRSP requirements, in
    audit-ready fashion. 
  * Enter protocol actions in iRIS with accuracy and in a timely manner.
  * Assure accurate entry and maintenance of data in IRIS in order to generate
    respective committee agendas, minutes, action notices, requests for
    continuation reports, and activity reports.
  * Assist the HRSP Director and/or Operations Manager with completion of other
    assignments as necessary.
  * Take leadership role in drafting and/or editing new and existing HRSP
    office procedures.  Submit drafts for the HRSP Operations Manager and other
    Research Protocol Analysts (RPAs) to critique and edit.  Take
    responsibility for finalizing document, conduct an in-service to
    familiarize RPAs and other office staff of the procedures, and place the
    e-documents in the established electronic folder for future use and access
    as needed.
  * Perform quality control activities as required.
  * Conduct in-service training for PIs and their staff on respective committee
    requirements, review mechanisms and Board functions, website location of
    related forms and templates and their appropriate uses, etc.
  * Attend regional and/or national conferences to keep abreast of current
    issues and trends with regard to regulatory concerns and issues and
    represent COH in a professional manner.
  * Attend meetings for and represent the HRSP Director and/or Operations
    Manager as necessary.

Follows established City of Hope and department policies, procedures,
objectives, performance improvement, attendance, safety, environmental, and
infection control guidelines, including adherence to the workplace Code of
Conduct and Compliance Plan.  Practices a high level of integrity and honesty
in maintaining confidentiality.

Performs other related duties as assigned or requested.

Minimum Education and Skills Required for Consideration:

  * Bachelor?s degree and 3-5 years experience in academic research setting.
  * Obtain certification as an IRB professional (CIP) within two years of hire,
    continue to maintain that certification through continuing education
    requirements or by taking the examination every 3 years. Current Certified
    IRB Professional (CIP) certification preferred.
  * Supervisory experience preferred.
  * Experience in managing studies in an academic research setting is
    preferred.
  * Knowledge of federal and state of California regulations involving the use
    of human subjects in research.
  * Analytical skills to review research protocols in conformance with
    respective committee requirements and requests.
  * Effective interpersonal skills to directly communicate complex information
    to PIs and their administrative and research personnel.
  * Strong writing skills to document and summarize salient points and results
    of respective committee meeting proceedings.  Ability to directly
    communicate the same in action notices to PIs.
  * Ability to work as a team member in an office where there are numerous
    deadlines and time-sensitive issues requiring judgement and flexibility.
  * Working knowledge of relational databases for management of research
    protocols. 
  * Ability to pay attention to details involving research protocols and
    related documents.
  * Ability to work with a high volume of protocols and submissions with
    competing deadlines.
  * Ability to display tact/consideration in dealing with COH employees.
  * Knowledge of Microsoft Office; Access; Microsoft Outlook.

About City of Hope

City of Hope, an innovative biomedical research, treatment and educational
institution with over 4000 employees, is dedicated to the prevention and cure
of cancer and other life-threatening diseases and guided by a compassionate,
patient-centered philosophy. Founded in 1913 and headquartered in Duarte,
California, City of Hope is a remarkable non-profit institution, where
compassion and advanced care go hand-in-hand with excellence in clinical and
scientific research. City of Hope is a National Cancer Institute designated
Comprehensive Cancer Center and a founding member of the National Comprehensive
Cancer Network, an alliance of the nation?s 20 leading cancer centers that
develops and institutes standards of care for cancer treatment.

City of Hope is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will
receive consideration for employment without regard to race, religion, color,
national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, status as a
protected veteran, or status as a qualified individual with disability.

 


[Apply for this Position]                                    [Send to a Friend]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Are you a returning applicant?


Previous Applicants:
                                       Email: [                    ]
[                    ] [                    ]
                                    Password: [                    ]
[Add to My Jobs]

If you do not remember your password click here.


Back to Search Results

New Search


                                                               Powered By Taleo



