Refresh (0 sec) /careers/jobs/a0I1200000JXqq0EAD/?_fb_noscript=1
Verwijderen
We gebruiken cookies om inhoud en advertenties relevanter te maken en je een
veiligere ervaring te bieden. Als je op de website klikt of op de website
navigeert, ga je ermee akkoord dat we op en buiten Facebook informatie
verzamelen via cookies. Meer informatie, zoals over hoe je je instellingen kunt
aanpassen, vind je hier: cookiebeleid.

Facebook

E-mail of telefoon     Wachtwoord
[                    ] [                    ] [Aanmelden]
                       Account vergeten?
Registreren
*
 
Work at Facebook
 
Teams
 
Locations
 
University Students
 
Benefits
 
Facebook Life
 
Our Community

Data & Analytics

[                    ]
Menlo Park
Data Scientist, Infrastructure Strategy

(Menlo Park, CA - Seattle, WA - Boston, MA)
Facebook's mission is to give people the power to share, and make the world
more open and connected. Through our growing family of apps and services, we're
building a different kind of company that helps billions of people around the
world connect and share what matters most to them. Whether we're creating new
products or helping a small business expand its reach, people at Facebook are
builders at heart. Our global teams are constantly iterating, solving problems,
and working together to make the world more open and accessible. Connecting the
world takes every one of us—and we're just getting started.
How would Facebook scale to the next billion users? The Infrastructure Strategy
group is responsible for the strategic analysis to support and enable the
continued growth critical to Facebook’s infrastructure organization. The ideal
candidate will be passionate about Facebook, highly analytical, have strong
mathematical aptitude and has experience using data to drive cost effective
decision making. This is a full-time position with opportunities in Menlo Park,
CA, Seattle WA, and Boston MA.

Responsibilities

  • Leverage data and business principles to solve large scale web, mobile and
    data infrastructure problems.
  • Work cross functionally to define problem statements, collect data, build
    analytical models and make recommendations.
  • Build and maintain data driven optimization models, experiments,
    forecasting algorithms and capacity constraint models.
  • Leverage tools like R, PHP, Python, Hadoop & SQL to drive efficient
    analytics.
  • Communicate final recommendations and drive decision making.

Minimum Qualifications

  • Degree in an analytical field (e.g. Computer Science, Engineering,
    Mathematics, Statistics, Operations Research, Management Science).
  • 5+ years of Scripting with one of these languages (PHP, R, PYTHON).
  • 5+ years of SQL experience.
  • Experienced with packages such as NumPy, SciPy, pandas, scikit-learn,
    dplyr, ggplot2.
  • 5+ years of data mining / analytics.

Preferred Qualifications

  • 2 plus years of industry or graduate research experience.
  • Hands-on experience with datasets (i.e. data extraction, cleaning, analysis
    and presentation).
  • Demonstrated ability to provide insights from data sets.
  • Understanding of statistics and optimization techniques.

Apply
Facebook is proud to be an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action employer.
We do not discriminate based upon race, religion, color, national origin, sex
(including pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions), sexual
orientation, gender, gender identity, gender expression, transgender status,
sexual stereotypes, age, status as a protected veteran, status as an individual
with a disability, or other applicable legally protected characteristics.
If you need assistance or an accommodation due to a disability, you may contact
us at accommodations-ext@fb.com or you may call us at 1+650-308-7837.
Apply

Please limit to 3 applications.

Other positions in Analytics, Infrastructure, Program Management and Analysis

  • Advertising Optimization Researcher
    (Menlo Park - New York)
  • Business Integrity Associate - Policy Operations
    (Singapore)
  • Data Scientist, Analytics
    (Menlo Park)
  • Data Scientist, Analytics
    (Menlo Park)
  • Director, Recruiting Analytics
    (Menlo Park)
  • Growth Marketing Analyst
    (Menlo Park)
  • Internet Marketing Analyst
    (Menlo Park)
  • Product Support Specialist
    (Dublin)
  • Quantitative Researcher, R&D
    (Menlo Park)
  • Technical Systems Engineering Manager, Business Integrity
    (Singapore)

Back to all jobs
Facebook © 2017Nederlands
Over ons
BedrijfsgegevensOnze Facebook-paginaRedactieVacatures
Instructies
HelpcentrumAlgemene informatie over privacyEen pagina makenMaak een advertentie
Ons beleid
gegevensbeleidVoorwaarden en beleidCookies
Meer informatiebronnen
Veiligheidscentrum voor familiesFacebook for BusinessFacebook voor
ontwikkelaars
