

                                                                      ?     [p]
[pixel]       Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Current [pixel]
                page                                  page                                  page                                 page
                Home                                 Search                                Search                                 Job                                                                                                          
                                                    openings                               results                              details
 
   # Job details
                  
   [pixel]                                    [pixel]
   [pixel]

  [pixel]
                                  Job 1 of 1
  [pixel]

               Submit to job   Send to friend   Save to cart   

   [pixel]

   Req Number     46334BR

   Job Title      Research Analyst

   Job Code and   5189 Field Researcher III
   Payroll Title

   Location       Mission Bay

   Department     Global Health Sciences
   Name

   Work Days      8:00 am - 5:00 pm

   Shift          Days

   Shift Length   8 Hours

   Job Summary    JOB OVERVIEW
                  Under the supervision of the Principal Investigators
                  (PIs) and Program Manager, the Research Analyst will
                  provide team leadership to the Strengthening
                  People-centered Accessibility, Respect, and Quality
                  (SPARQ) project for study activities in India and Kenya
                  such as the Quality Plus (Q+) program, abortion-related
                  activities in Kenya, as well as other study activities,
                  as needed.

                  The SPARQ Q+ Program oversees program operations as well
                  as leading the project team, under the guidelines of
                  research protocols, UCSF and funder requirements. The
                  Research Analyst will coordinate project planning and
                  implementation, including assessing needs, setting goals
                  and objectives, and designing data tools, and with the
                  PIs, manage a team to complete research tasks, such as
                  research design, tool development, creating and managing
                  research partners overseas, study recruitment, data
                  collection, data management and dissemination.

                  Research projects that the Research Analyst will lead
                  include a project in Uttar Pradesh, India (Q+) looking at
                  the structural determinants of maternal health in high
                  volume facilities. Responsibilities include securing UCSF
                  Committee of Human Research (CHR) approval for research
                  activities, and research partner IRB approval, leading
                  the design of research materials and tools, planning and
                  coordinating data collection, recruiting, consenting, and
                  gathering data from participants, data management,
                  qualitative and quantitative analysis, reporting and
                  dissemination.

                  The Research Analyst will also be responsible for the
                  management of other projects within the SPARQ project,
                  including the management of an intervention to improve
                  person centered abortion care in Kenya. This will include
                  securing UCSF CHR for abortion-related activities in
                  Kenya, participating in data collection training, data
                  collection activities, data management, qualitative and
                  quantitative analysis, and reporting and dissemination.

                  Please note: This is a full time contract position that
                  will end on July 31, 2018.

                  GLOBAL HEALTH SCIENCES
                  UCSF Global Health Sciences (GHS) is dedicated to
                  improving health and reducing the burden of disease in
                  the world?s most vulnerable populations. It integrates
                  UCSF expertise in all of the health, social, and
                  biological sciences, and focuses that expertise on
                  pressing issues in global health. GHS works with partners
                  in countries throughout the world to achieve these aims.
                  GHS seeks to improve health worldwide, especially in
                  developing countries, through research that informs
                  policy.

                  ABOUT UCSF
                  The University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) is a
                  leading university dedicated to promoting health
                  worldwide through advanced biomedical research,
                  graduate-level education in the life sciences and health
                  professions, and excellence in patient care. It is the
                  only campus in the 10-campus UC system dedicated
                  exclusively to the health sciences.

   Required       ? Bachelor's degree in related area and / or an
   Qualifications equivalent combination of education and experience
                  ? Thorough knowledge of safety, legal, cultural and
                  regulatory requirements relative to field research
                  responsibility
                  ? Thorough knowledge of research discipline, principles,
                  concepts, analysis and / or operations being conducted at
                  field / remote sites
                  ? Thorough knowledge of local customs and operations at
                  field / remote sites
                  ? Experience in program evaluations, including
                  qualitative and quantitative data collection
                  ? Knowledge of international health issues, particularly
                  maternal and child health issues
                  ? Work experience in India and/or other developing
                  countries
                  ? Demonstrated experience working in a developing country
                  with local partners and field staff
                  ? Proven ability to develop and maintain strategic
                  relationships and partnerships with remote research
                  partners
                  ? Proven ability to work independently and with a team,
                  and to meet deadlines with minimal supervision
                  ? Strong attention to detail and strong organizational
                  skills
                  ? Proven ability to work in ambiguous conditions and take
                  relevant responsible action as required
                  ? Strong research and analytical skills
                  ? Strong communication skills with research partners and
                  project team members
                  ? Strong interpersonal and cross-cultural communications
                  skills; ability to communicate with and establish
                  productive relationships with a broad range of local
                  partners
                  ? Excellent project coordination and self-management
                  skills, organizational and logistics management skills,
                  analytical and creative problem-solving skills
                  ? Ability to work in a fast-paced environment
                  ? Ability to work in a team, as well as to build, lead,
                  and motivate teams
                  ? Ability to problem-solve and work autonomously and
                  independently
                  ? Demonstrated capacity to develop and manage strong
                  relationships with local partners, government officials,
                  etc.
                  ? Ability to travel to India and Kenya and work under
                  unstructured conditions

                  Note: Physical/health screening, fingerprinting and
                  background check required.

   Preferred      ? Master?s degree in public health, international
   Qualifications development, or related degree
                  ? Hindi language skills, a plus
                  ? Strong knowledge of global maternal and child health
                  issues
                  ? Experience in mobile data collection, a plus

   License/       n/a
   Certification

   Position Type  Full Time

   Percentage     100%

   Equal          The University of California San Francisco is an Equal
   Employment     Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified
   Opportunity    applicants will receive consideration for employment
                  without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual
                  orientation, gender identity, national origin, age,
                  protected veteran or disabled status, or genetic
                  information.

               Submit to job   Send to friend   Save to cart   

 
