
                                                                      ?     [p]
[pixel]       Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Current [pixel]
                page                                  page                                  page                                 page
                Home                                 Search                                Search                                 Job                                                                                                          
                                                    openings                               results                              details
 
   ● Job details
                  
   [pixel]                                    [pixel]
   [pixel]

  [pixel]
                                  Job 1 of 1
  [pixel]

              Apply to job   Save to cart   View similar jobs  

   [pixel]

   Auto req ID    6519BR

   Title          Data Scientist

   Posting        United States
   Country

   State/Province California

   Posting City   San Diego

   Functional     Customer Service
   Area

   Job            All About Us
   Description
                  Do you want to make a difference? Illumina’s mission is
                  to improve human health by unlocking the power of the
                  genome. If that inspires you, let’s talk. We’ve built a
                  culture fueled by innovation, collaboration and openness,
                  and established ourselves as the global leader in DNA
                  sequencing and array-based technologies. Our people and
                  our technology change lives by driving advancements in
                  life sciences, oncology, reproductive health, agriculture
                  and other emerging markets. We are deeply passionate
                  about what we do, because we know that our work has the
                  power to improve lives.

                  We’re an established company with a track record of
                  phenomenal growth. Our revenue grew from $10 million in
                  2002 to approximately $2.2 billion in 2015. Our growth
                  isn’t just revenue, we’ve been hiring the best and the
                  brightest. Perhaps that’s why MIT has ranked Illumina
                  near the top of its World’s Smartest Companies list three
                  years running, including #1 in 2014. If you thrive in a
                  brilliant, fast-paced, and mission-driven environment,
                  Illumina is the place for you – imagine the
                  possibilities.
                   
                   
                  Position Summary:
                  The Data Scientist will be part of a team responsible to
                  develop the infrastructure, system and statistical
                  analytics to enable proactive and predictive service. The
                  Data Scientist will work with other functions such as
                  software development and systems engineering to develop
                  complex statistical algorithms and machine learning
                  models working with extremely large and complex data
                  structures. The position will provide technical
                  leadership of other data scientists, analysts and
                  programmers in the design, build, evaluation and
                  deployment of models and other analytical projects.  The
                  position may also provide analytics support to other
                  parts of the organization including Product Development,
                  Sales and Marketing and/or Finance.
                   
                  All About You
                   
                  Responsibilities:

                    • Analyze, design, develop, test, troubleshoot and
                      document complex data systems that may involve one or
                      more of the following: data mining, predictive
                      models, machine learning, data-drive decision making
                      and other related concepts.
                    • Providing technical input to internal teams regarding
                      data discovery, planning and processing.
                    • Anticipate business needs and work proactively to
                      improve data management processes and collaborate
                      with developers to implement improvements.
                    • Keep current with outside advancements in data
                      science techniques and inject developments as
                      appropriate.

                   
                   
                  Requirements:
                   
                  Minimum Qualifications:

                    • Minimum 7 years of industry experience for Master’s
                      candidates or 4 years for Ph.D. candidates
                    • Minimum 4 years of data science experience in
                      industry for Master’s candidates or 2 years for Ph.D.
                      candidates
                    • Experience in creating and applying advanced
                      statistical methods and machine learning algorithms
                      such as: data mining, regression, clustering,
                      simulation, scenario analysis, neural networks and
                      decision trees.
                    • Experience creating simple, concise visualizations of
                      data and presenting to stakeholders through
                      visualization software such as Tableau, PowerBI,
                      Periscope, or other similar software
                    • Minimum of 4 years of programming experience (C, C++,
                      Java, Python, R)
                    • Minimum of 4 years of experience with relational
                      databases and SQL
                    • Experience with statistical or computational
                      mathematics tools (SAS, R, Jmp, Matlab).
                    • Strong interpersonal and communication skills (both
                      written and oral) including the ability to
                      communicate complex technical/statistical concepts to
                      a non-technical audience.

                  Preferred Qualifications:

                    • Experience leading or collaborating with a team of
                      data scientists in developing and delivering machine
                      learning models that work in a production setting
                    • Experience working with large data sets and tools
                      like MapReduce, Hadoop, Hive, etc.
                    • Experience with web services such as AWS, Redshift,
                      S3, and/or Spark connecting to data using API’s.
                    • Experience connecting and analyzing data from
                      multiple business applications(SAP, SFDC, IBM Cognos)
                    • Systems engineer or reliability engineering
                      experience.
                    • Ability to work in a global collaborative team
                      environment
                    • Excellent verbal and written communication skills in
                      English

                   
                  Education:
                  Minimum Qualifications:

                    • Master’s degree or Ph.D. in a relevant technical
                      discipline (Mathematics, Engineering, Computer
                      Science, Statistics or a similar field)

                  Preferred Qualifications:

                    • MBA

                   
                  Illumina believes that everyone has the ability to make
                  an impact, and we are proud to be an equal opportunity
                  employer committed to providing employment opportunity
                  regardless of sex, race, creed, color, gender, religion,
                  marital status, domestic partner status, age, national
                  origin or ancestry, physical or mental disability,
                  medical condition, sexual orientation, pregnancy,
                  military or veteran status, citizenship status, and
                  genetic information. 

   Job Level      Experienced Professional

              Apply to job   Save to cart   View similar jobs  
                                                                               
