Skip Navigation
  Sign In to access application status,
  saved documents and Job Search Agents
  Job Details
  View Job Cart (0) Send This Job to a Friend 
  View My Account
  Computer Scientist - Machine Learning

  Requisition Number:    Location: Lemont, IL
  401729

  Functional Area:       Division: LCF-Leadership
  Research and           Computing Facility
  Development

  Employment Category:   Shift: 8:30 - 5:00
  Regular

  Level (Grade): RD3
  
         Share on      Share on      Share on
  Share: Facebook!     LinkedIn!     Twitter! 
         Facebook      LinkedIn      Twitter
                                                 
  [Apply Now]                   [Add to Job Cart]
  Position Description

  
  The Argonne Leadership Computing Facility’s
  (ALCF) mission is to accelerate major
  scientific discoveries and engineering
  breakthroughs for humanity by designing and
  providing world-leading computing facilities in
  partnership with the computational science
  community. We help researchers solve some of
  the world’s largest and most complex problems
  with our unique combination of supercomputing
  resources and computational science expertise.

  We invite you to apply for a Computer Scientist
  position with the ALCF. You will join the data
  sciences group and provide technology vision,
  research, development and support in machine
  learning to glean insights from large-scale
  datasets being produced by computational
  simulations, experiments and observations in
  domains including material science, genomics,
  neuroscience, engineering, and high energy
  physics. You will work in a highly
  collaborative environment involving science
  application teams, academia, industry as well
  as other national labs and agencies.

  Position Requirements

  
  Ideal candidates are expected to have:

    • A PhD or equivalent experience in computer
      science, applied mathematics, statistics,
      computational science or in a related
      field.
    • Demonstrated advanced knowledge of one or
      more of machine learning, data mining and
      statistics.
    • Strong background in mathematical
      optimization or linear algebra.
    • Advanced knowledge and significant
      experience in one or more programming
      languages such as Python, C, C++, Java, and
      Scala.
    • Significant experience with analysis
      packages such as Matlab and R, and with
      machine learning toolkits such as Torch,
      Caffe, Tensorflow or scikit-learn.
    • Significant experience in analysis of data
      with applications.
    • Good communication skills both verbal and
      written.
    • Software development practices and
      techniques for computational science
      problems.
    • Good experience and skills in
      interdisciplinary research involving
      mathematicians, computer scientists, and
      application scientists.


  Desirable knowledge and skills:

    • Parallel computing experience is highly
      desirable.
    • Good ability to provide project leadership.
    • Collaborative skills including the ability
      to work well with other laboratories and
      universities, supercomputer centers, and
      industry.

  As an equal employment opportunity and
  affirmative action employer, Argonne National
  Laboratory is committed to a diverse and
  inclusive workplace that fosters collaborative
  scientific discovery and innovation. In support
  of this commitment, Argonne encourages
  minorities, women, veterans and individuals
  with disabilities to apply for employment.
  Argonne considers all qualified applicants for
  employment without regard to age, ancestry,
  citizenship status, color, disability, gender,
  gender identity, genetic information, marital
  status, national origin, pregnancy, race,
  religion, sexual orientation, veteran status or
  any other characteristic protected by law.

  Move   Back to top
  Up
  View Job Cart (0) Send This Job to a Friend 
  View My Account
jobDetails
