

                                                                      ?     [p]
[pixel]       Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Current [pixel]
                page                                  page                                  page                                 page
                Home                                 Search                                Search                                 Job                                                                                                          
                                                    openings                               results                              details
 
   # Job details                               
                                         Tweet
   [pixel]                                      [pixel]
   [pixel]

  [pixel]
                                  Job 1 of 1
  [pixel]

 Apply to job   Send to friend   Save to basket   [Post to my Social Network(s)]
                                          

   [pixel]

   Job ID         203527BR

   Posting Title  Scientist I, Respiratory Disease

   Division       NIBR

   Business Unit  DMP

   Country        USA

   Work Location  Cambridge, MA

   Company/Legal  USA Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Inc.,
   Entity         Cambridge, MA

   Functional     Research & Development
   Area

   Therapeutic/   Respiratory
   Disease Area

   Job Type       Full Time

   Employment     Regular
   Type

   Job            Contribute to the Respiratory disease area by focusing on
   Description    in vivo pharmacology strategies and experimental
                  approaches to characterize novel models of disease to
                  further advance currently established techniques. Deliver
                  high quality in vivo data from pre-clinical respiratory
                  models to enable the progression of the Respiratory
                  Sciences drug discovery portfolio. Conduct and analyze
                  both innovative and pre-established experiments to
                  directly target ion transport mechanisms in the
                  respiratory tract. Perform in vivo experiments and
                  procedures with a higher degree of complexity
                  demonstrating increasing expertise with a wide range of
                  scientific and surgical techniques. Design, execute and
                  analyze in vivo pharmacology studies focused on improving
                  mucociliary clearance and provide supervisors and project
                  leaders with detailed interpretation of results and
                  evaluation of data. Conduct surgical procedures on
                  anesthetized rodents targeting the upper respiratory
                  tract. Conduct small animal tracheal potential difference
                  measurements. Apply effective dosing techniques in
                  rodents and guinea pigs, including Intra-tracheal
                  instillation, oropharyngeal aspiration, intra-nasal
                  dosing and aerosol inhalation. Demonstrate a broad range
                  of in vitro skills including primary cell culture. Apply
                  understanding of in vitro electrophysiology assays, and
                  be competent in independently conducting Ussing assays
                  using primary cells. Design and execute in vivo programs,
                  using current literature where possible. Provide
                  independent interpretation of results, evaluate data,
                  plan follow-up and contribute to the design of future
                  disease relevant experiments. Recognize problems and
                  provide input on solutions and continue to suggest new
                  approaches to current procedures, such as modifications
                  or improvements to further validate techniques. Maintain
                  awareness of and provide recommendations on standard
                  laboratory tools and procedures. Train junior members of
                  team as needed. Work independently or as part of a team
                  to meet core objectives aligned with agreed target dates
                  and priorities. Interface with internal (RD) and where
                  applicable external (NIBR) in vivo experts.

   EEO Statement  The Novartis Group of Companies are Equal Opportunity
                  Employers and take pride in maintaining a diverse
                  environment. We do not discriminate in recruitment,
                  hiring, training, promotion or any other employment
                  practices for reasons of race, color, religion, gender,
                  national origin, age, sexual orientation, marital or
                  veteran status, disability, or any other legally
                  protected status.

   Minimum        Candidate must have Bachelor?s or foreign equivalent
   requirements   degree in Biology, Pharmacology or Biosciences and 18
                  months experience in in vivo research within Respiratory
                  Disease including experience: conducting experiments to
                  directly target ion transport mechanisms in the
                  respiratory tract; designing, executing and analyzing in
                  vivo pharmacology studies focused on mucociliary
                  clearance modulation; conducting surgical procedures on
                  anesthetized rodents targeting the upper respiratory
                  tract; conducting small animal tracheal potential
                  difference measurements; applying effective dosing
                  techniques in rodents and guinea pigs, including
                  Intra-tracheal instillation, oropharyngeal aspiration,
                  intra-nasal dosing and aerosol inhalation.

 Apply to job   Send to friend   Save to basket   [Post to my Social Network(s)]
                                          

    Use of this website is governed by our Terms of use and Privacy policy
       To view the Novartis Candidate Data Privacy Statement click here.
