*
TEKsystems?Our People Make IT Possible
Services
Industries
IT Careers
Contact
Services
Industries
IT Careers
Contact

  * 
  *  

  * Need help?
      + Contact us at teksystems@jobs.net

  * Language: United States - English
      + United States - English
      + Canada - French

  * Back to Search

Data Analyst

TEKsystems, Inc
Posted: 01/03/2017
Apply

Job Snapshot


Location:
US-MI-Dearborn
Employee Type:
Contractor
Posting ID:
5867549


Job Summary



*** Candidates MUST work on a TEKsystems W2***

Position Description:
The Data Analyst role resides within the large data organization group
supporting data operations for profitable growth. In this role, you will
support data requirements of the Data Scientists and Data Analysts who are
using data and analytics to achieve business outcomes providing insights to
accelerate customer, vehicle and application initiatives. This position will
help bring data to life to solve business problems and provide data support for
enterprise to include data integration tasks, such as, ingestion,
standardization, enrichment, mastering and assembly of data products for
downstream applications.

Skills Required:
You will be responsible for providing data support and integration tasks for
the enterprise, including ingestion, standardization, enrichment, mastering and
assembly of data products for downstream applications. In addition, you will:
- Work on various data types across the enterprise including Customer,
Manufacturing, Dealer, Vehicle, product development, finance, etc.
- Data profiling and data exploration of data for better understanding and
analytic support.
- Provide visibility to Data Quality issues and work with the business owners
to fix the issues.
- Work closely with the Data Scientists and data analysts to better understand
and evaluate data requirements and the type of data needed.
- Support the data requirements of the different functional teams such as
Marketing Sales and Service, Product Development, General Counsel, Finance,
Quality, etc. and regional initiatives.
- Evaluate, explore and work with different data platform technologies
including Big Data, RDBMS (Relational Database Management Systems) and NoSQL to
meet the analytics requirements.
- Implement an Enterprise Data Governance model and actively promote the
concept of data sharing, data reuse, data quality and data standards.
- Perform any necessary data mapping, data lineage activities and document
information flows.
- Build the Metadata model & Business Glossary by gathering information from
multiple sources: business users, existing data sources, databases and other
relevant documents and systems.
- Serve as data subject matter expert and demonstrate an understanding of key
data management principles and data use.
- Drive Master Data Management (MDM) strategy and governance model for Master
Data.
- Support the data strategy and ensure alignment with a continuously changing
business landscape.

Experience Required:
- Minimum of 5 years of experience in a data management role including running
queries and compiling data for analytics.
- Minimum of 3 years of experience in data design, data architecture and data
modeling (both transactional and analytic).
- Minimum of 2 years of experience with Big Data / NoSQL technologies, Hadoop
(HDFS, MapReduce, Hive, Shark, Spark, QlikView, etc.), with knowledge of
command line experience with loading and manipulating files within HDFS.

Education Required:
- Bachelor's Degree in Analytics, Statistics, Computer Science or a related
field from an accredited college or university.

Education Preferred:
- Master's degree preferred with a strong background in data science.

Additional Information :
- Strong team player, with the ability to collaborate, solve problems and
actively incorporate input from various sources and team members.
- Demonstrated customer focus, with the ability to evaluate decisions through
the eyes of the customer, build strong customer relationships, and create
processes with customer viewpoint.
- Strong analytical and problem solving skills, with the ability to communicate
in a clear and succinct manner and effectively evaluates information / data to
make decisions.
- Strong interpersonal, and leadership skills, with proven abilities to
communicate complex topics to leaders and peers in a simple, clear, plan
oriented manner.
- Ability to anticipate obstacles and develop plans to resolve those obstacles.
- Change oriented, with the ability to actively generates process improvements,
support and drives change, and confront difficult circumstances in creative
ways.
- Resourceful and quick learner, with the ability to efficiently seek out,
learn, and apply new areas of expertise , as needed.
- Highly self-motivated, with the ability to work independently.
- Superior organization, coaching and interpersonal skills, combined with
effective leadership, decision-making, and communication.
- Strong oral and written communication skills (English).
- Strategic and clear thinking to translate discreet and complex ideas to
business-driven results.
- Detail-oriented with a strong drive to enforce common standards.
- Demonstrated acceptance and adherence to high ethical, moral, and personal
values.







About TEKsystems:

Join TEKsystems?, a leading IT staffing, IT talent management and IT services
firm, and get your career on the fast track. We have more than 100 offices
worldwide, and we partner with over 6,000 clients and place over 80,000
consultants per year. At TEKsystems, we seek to understand our consultants'
skills, goals and interests, allowing us to present targeted job opportunities
on a contract, contract-to-hire or direct placement basis. TEKsystems'
leadership in the market stems from our sincere and personal commitment to
driving the success of our customers, consultants and each other.

The company is an equal opportunity employer and will consider all applications
without regard to race, sex, age, color, religion, national origin, veteran
status, disability, genetic information or any other characteristic protected
by law.

If you would like to request a reasonable accommodation, such as the
modification or adjustment of the job application process or interviewing
process due to a disability, please call 888 472-3411 or email
accommodation@teksystems.com for other accommodation options.
 

Contact Information


Name:
Anthonie Hamama
Email:
ahamama@teksystems.com
Phone:

Apply

  *  
  *  
  *  
  *  
  *  
  *  
  *  

  * Contact Us
  * TEKsavvy Blog
  * About TEKsystems
  * Internal Careers

  * All Locations
  * Privacy
  * Terms and Conditions
  * Site Map

Copyright ? 2016 TEKsystems Inc., All Rights Reserved.

