

  Individuals & Families  Employers & Organizations  Health Care Professionals   Producers     About Us                   News & Analysis
                                                                                                                                         

Aetna


 
                                                                      ?     [p]
[pixel]       Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Completed [progressLi]  [progressLi]  Current [pixel]
                page                                  page                                  page                                 page
                Home                                 Search                                Search                                 Job                                                                                                          
                                                    openings                               results                              details
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
   ● Job details
                  
   [pixel]                                    [pixel]
   [pixel]

  [pixel]
                                  Job 1 of 1
  [pixel]
                                                                               
              Apply to job   Save to cart   View similar jobs  

   [pixel]

   Posting Job    Principal Data Scientist - 37854BR.
   Title

   EEO Statement  Aetna is an Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action
                  Employer

   Req#           37854BR

   Primary        MA-Wellesley
   Location

   Locations      MA-Wellesley
                  CT-Hartford
                  NY-New York

   Percent of
   Travel         0 - 10%
   Required

   Potential
   Telework       No
   Position

   Full or Part   Full Time
   Time

   Supervisory    No

   Job            Aetna's Data Science team is focused on delivering
   Description    strategically-impactful products to our internal
                  customers, by building analytically-based solutions that
                  integrate a wide range of internal and external large
                  datasets within a cutting-edge Hadoop parallel-processing
                  environment. We are currently seeking a Principal Data
                  Scientist in our Hartford, CT; Wellesley, MA or New York,
                  NY location.

                  This position will be responsible for leveraging advanced
                  statistical predictive modeling to evaluate scenarios and
                  make predictions on future outcomes. Analyzes very large
                  data sets in real time databases and develops and
                  implements mathematical approaches.

                   

                  Position Summary: This is a unique opportunity to develop
                  new approaches leveraging the latest cutting-edge “big
                  data” technologies.  The successful candidate will
                  provide strategic leadership for the development,
                  validation and delivery of algorithms, statistical models
                  and reporting tools. Acts as the analytic team lead for
                  highly complex projects involving multiple resources and
                  tasks, providing individual mentoring in support of
                  company objectives.

                   

                  Fundamental Components:

                    ● Leads development and execution of new and/or highly
                      complex algorithms and statistical predictive models
                      and determines analytical approaches and modeling
                      techniques to evaluate potential future outcomes.
                    ● Establishes analytical rigor and statistical methods
                      to analyze large amounts of data, using advanced
                      statistical techniques and mathematical
                      analyses.  Methods will be implemented in Hadoop and
                      R using advanced technologies.
                    ● Motivates team members and probes into technical
                      details, and mentors others to do the same.
                    ● Provides leadership and direction for analytic
                      solutions, tools and studies.
                    ● Anticipates and solves strategic and high risk
                      business problems with broad impact on the business
                      area by applying leading-edge theories and techniques
                      to investigate problems, detect patterns and
                      recommend solutions.
                    ● Provides guidance to develop enterprise-wide
                      analytics strategy and roadmap.
                    ● Interacts with internal and external peers and
                      management to share highly complex information/
                      solutions related to areas of expertise and/or to
                      gain acceptance of new or enhanced technology/
                      business solutions.

                   

                  Background/Experience:

                  · 8 or more years related experience.

                  · Technical background with modeling and programming.

                  · Experience in SAS or SQL or other programming
                  languages.

                  · Predictive modeling experience, data analytics, machine
                  learning, and big data technologies such as Python, R,
                  and Hadoop.

                  · Demonstrated ability to communicate technical ideas and
                  results to non-technical clients in written and verbal
                  form. 

                  · Strong organizational, management and leadership
                  skills.

                  · Excellent analytical and problem solving skills.

                  · Experience in healthcare industry is a plus.

                  ·  

                  Education

                    ●  Master’s degree; Ph.D. preferred.

                   

                   

                  Additional Job Information:

                  Aetna continues to build a world-class Data Science
                  organization to capture data, understand context,
                  generate insights and react in real time. We engage our
                  business partners, providing solutions to improve the
                  consumer experience, increase efficiencies, and optimize
                  health outcomes for our members through leveraging
                  cutting edge technology.

                   

                  Aetna is about more than just doing a job. This is our
                  opportunity to re-shape healthcare for America and across
                  the globe. We are developing solutions to improve the
                  quality and affordability of healthcare. What we do will
                  benefit generations to come.

                  We care about each other, our customers and our
                  communities. We are inspired to make a difference, and we
                  are committed to integrity and excellence. Together we
                  will empower people to live healthier lives.

                  Aetna is an equal opportunity & affirmative action
                  employer. All qualified applicants will receive
                  consideration for employment regardless of personal
                  characteristics or status. We take affirmative action to
                  recruit, select and develop women, people of color,
                  veterans and individuals with disabilities.

                  We are a company built on excellence. We have a culture
                  that values growth, achievement and diversity and a
                  workplace where your voice can be heard.

                   


                  Benefit eligibility may vary by position. Click here to
                  review the benefits associated with this position.


                  #LI-TA1
                  
   Employment     Regular
   Type

   Career Band    Professional
   Description
                                                                               
              Apply to job   Save to cart   View similar jobs  
                                                                               


  • Glossary
  • Web Privacy
  • Health Care Reform

  • Site Map
  • Legal Statement
  • Careers

  • FAQs
  • Program Provisions
  • Investor Info

  • Legal Notices
  • Member Disclosure

  • Privacy Information
  • State Directory

Copyright © 2001-2016 Aetna Inc.
Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn

